



The concept of a clock enfolds all succession in time.
In the concept the sixth hour is not earlier
than the seventh or eighth,
although the clock never strikes the hour,
save when the concept biddeth.
- Nicholas of Cusa, 1450

时钟的概念围绕着时间的演替
在这个概念中除去这个概念坏掉的情况
纵使时钟从不报时六点亦不会比七点或八点更早
- 库萨的尼古拉，1450年


[That's mine, you know.
Yeah. Well — I have some ideas about it. 
I just wanted to give it a try. See how it goes.
Next thing I know, you'll be taking over all the Cusa pieces.

What kind of ideas?
I don't know! Subconscious drives, right? 
Like with anything creative.
Did you feel this way before your trip to the island, 
or after?
Well ... I think ... after. Mostly after. 
I had a seed of it before, 
even back when I first heard the piece, 
when you first picked it out,
but I didn't really notice then. 
Now it's like the Princess and the Pea.

I don't mean to be stepping on your toes though. 
Really the drive is personal — 
I wanted to record this one, 
so I can hear it the way I want to hear it, 
just to set something right. For myself.

I'm going to file this under the category "Good Problems to Have".
So your attitude to the piece changed, or clarified, 
maybe based on the trip. That means it's working. 
Something's working. Maybe.
Back when we started, 
I would have counted us lucky to ever get this far.
But here we are.
Here we are. Record away, and I will take my leave, 
thanking you for this opportunity 
to introspect on my aversive feelings.
You're welcome!]

【那个是我的。
是啊。呃—我有些想法。我想要试试。看看会怎么样。
然后，你就要接收掉库萨的所有文章了。
是什么样的点子？
我不知道！大概是潜意识的驱动？就像各种创意一样。
在去那座岛之前有过这种感觉吗，或者之后才有？
呃...大概是...之后才有。大部分是在之后吧。在我第一次听到这篇，
在你第一次挑出这篇的时候，我就有点想法了，
但我那时候没有真正注意到。而我现在，就像是豌豆公主一样。
我并不是想要让你生气的。这种动力，真的是发自个人—
我想要把这段录下来，这样，我就可以按我喜欢的方式来听它，
只是为了让事情适合我的风格。
我会把这件事归在“应该拥有的好问题”一类。
那么，你对这段文字的看法，或许因为旅行而有所改变或理清。那就是说，它有奏效。
大概，有些东西在奏效。
回到一开始的话题吧，能讨论到这个深度，我认为我们很幸运。
但我们就是这么幸运。
对。去录吧，我要走了，谢谢你给我个机会让我能对我的负面感情进行反省。
不客气！】


The glass is transparent,
the wine transparent —
the two are similar,
the affair confused.
There seems to be wine
and no glass,
or glass
and no wine.
- Sahib bin Abbad, circa 990

酒杯是透明的酒液是透明的—
二者相似相互混淆
恍然间如同有酒无酒杯又如有酒杯无酒
- Sahib bin Abbad，约990年


I maintain that the cosmic religious feeling
is the strongest and noblest motive for scientific research.
Only those who realize the immense efforts
and, above all, the devotion
without which pioneer work in theoretical science
cannot be achieved
are able to grasp the strength of the emotion
out of which alone such work,
remote as it is from the immediate realities of life, can issue.
What a deep conviction of the rationality of the universe
and what a yearning to understand,
were it but a feeble reflection
of the mind revealed in this world,
Kepler and Newton must have had
to enable them to spend years of solitary labor
in disentangling the principles of celestial mechanics!
Those whose acquaintance with scientific research is derived
chiefly from its practical results
easily develop a completely false notion of the mentality
of the men who, surrounded by a skeptical world,
have shown the way to kindred spirits scattered wide
through the world and through the centuries.
Only one who has devoted his life to similar ends
can have a vivid realization of what has inspired these men
and given them the strength to remain true to their purpose
in spite of countless failures.
It is cosmic religious feeling that gives a man such strength.
A contemporary has said, not unjustly,
that in this materialistic age of ours
the serious scientific workers
are the only profoundly religious people.
- Albert Einstein, 1930

我认为，宇宙宗教感情是科学研究的最强有力、最高尚的动机
只有那些做了巨大努力尤其是表现出热忱献身的人—
要是没有这种热忱就不能在理论科学的开辟新工作中取得成就—
只有这种人，才会了解这样一种感情的力量唯有这种力量才能作出那种确实是原理直接现实生活的工作
为了清理出天体力学的原理开普勒和牛顿花费了多年寂寞的劳动
他们对宇宙合理性的信念该是多么深挚
他们要了解它的愿望又该是多么热切！而它只不过是显示在这世界上的理性的一点微弱反映
那些主要从实际结果来认识科学研究的人对于下面这样一些人的精神状态
容易得出完全错误的看法：这些人受着一个怀疑的世界包围
但却为分散在全世界和各个世纪的志同道合者指出了道路
只有献身于同样目的的人才能深切地体会到究竟是什么在鼓舞着这些人
并且给他们以力量使他们不顾无尽的挫折而坚定不移地忠诚于他们的志向
给人以这种力量的就是宇宙宗教感情
有一位当代人说得不错，他说在我们这个唯物论的时代
只有严肃的科学工作者才是深信宗教的人
- 阿尔伯特·爱因斯坦，1930年


Imagine if all the tumult of the body were to quiet down,
along with all our busy thoughts about earth, sea, and air;
if the very world should stop, and the mind cease thinking about itself,
go beyond itself, and be quite still;
if all the fantasies that appear in dreams and imagination should cease,
and there be no speech, no sign:
Imagine if all things that are perishable grew still –
for if we listen they are saying,
We did not make ourselves; he made us who abides forever –
imagine, then, that they should say this and fall silent,
listening to the very voice of him who made them
and not to that of his creation;
so that we should hear not his word through the tongues of men,
nor the voice of angels,
nor the clouds’ thunder,
nor any symbol,
but the very Self which in these things we love,
and go beyond ourselves to attain a flash
of that eternal wisdom which abides above all things:
And imagine if that moment were to go on and on,
leaving behind all other sights and sounds
but this one vision which ravishes and absorbs
and fixes the beholder in joy;
so that the rest of eternal life
were like that moment of illumination
which leaves us breathless:
Would this not be what is bidden in scripture,
Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord?
- Augustine of Hippo, circa 400

想象身体的一切骚动都安静下来和我们所有的一切有关大地、海洋、天空的烦忧一切平静下来
想象世界停止下来，心灵停止对自身的思考超越自身，并且一声不响
想象梦中出现的幻境和想象都消失没有言语，没有符号
想象所有会凋零会坏的事物都静止下来—如果我们聆听，它们会说
我们并不是自然生就；是永恒的上帝创造了我们—那么，想象一下，它们说完这句话便沉默
聆听制作它们的上帝的声音而非上帝造物的声音
所以，我们不应该通过人的喉舌来聆听上帝的话语
不应该通过天使的声音不应该通过云间的雷鸣不应该通过任何符号
而是应该聆听我们珍爱的万物之中的自我
并且超脱出去获得万物之上永恒智慧的闪现：
并且想象，如果这一静止将无限持续抛却所有景象和声音
只剩这一令人沉浸其中的迷人境界令观看者沉浸于无尽快乐之中
于是，这无尽生命便如同启示之时令我们难以呼吸：
难道这一切就应书写于文字之间而不是让你体验上帝的快乐吗？
- 希波的奥古斯丁，约400年


One nature, perfect and pervading,
circulates in all natures;
One reality, all-comprehensive,
contains within itself all realities.
The one Moon reflects itself
wherever there is a sheet of water,
And all the moons in the waters
are embraced within the one Moon.
The Absolute of all the Buddhas
enters into my own being,
And my own being is found
in union with theirs....
The Inner Light is beyond praise and blame;
Like space it knows no boundaries,
Yet it is even here, within us,
ever retaining its serenity and fullness.
It is only when you hunt for it that you lose it;
You cannot take hold of it,
but equally you cannot get rid of it,
And while you can do neither,
it goes on its own way.
You remain silent and it speaks;
you speak, and it is dumb.
The great gate of charity is wide open,
with no obstacles before it.
- Yung-chia Ta-shih, circa 700

一性圆通一切性
一法遍含一切法
一月普现一切水
一切水月一月摄
诸佛法身入我性
我性同共如来合
不可毁 不可赞
体若虚空勿涯岸
不离当处常湛然
觅即知君不可见
取不得 舍不得
不可得中只么得
默时说 说时默
大施门开无壅塞
- 永嘉大师（唐朝），约700年


Sixty-six times have these eyes beheld the changing
scene of autumn
I have said enough about moonlight,
Ask no more.
Only listen to the voice of pines and cedars when no
wind stirs.
- Ryonen, 1711

六十六载秋意深
我歌月色音已沉
莫问此身何处去
且听风静松柏声
- 了然尼姑（日本），1711年


Through many births
I have wandered on and on,
Searching for, but never finding,
The builder of this house.
-  The Dhammapada Chapter Eleven: Old Age 

多生轮回中
探寻造屋者
而未得见之
- 《法句经》十一·老品


Your question is the most difficult in the world.
It is not a question I can answer
simply with yes or no.
I am not an Atheist.
I do not know if I can define myself as a Pantheist.
The problem involved is too vast for our limited minds.
May I not reply with a parable?
The human mind, no matter how highly trained,
cannot grasp the universe.
We are in the position of a little child
entering a huge library filled with books
in many languages.
The child knows someone must have written those books.
It does not know how.
It does not understand
the languages in which they are written.
The child dimly suspects a mysterious order
in the arrangement of the books
but doesn’t know what that is.
That, it seems to me,
is the attitude of the most intelligent human
toward God.
- Albert Einstein, 1930

你的问题是世界上最为难以回答的问题
这不是我能用简单的是或者否就能回答的问题
我不是无神论者我也不认为我可以称自己为泛神论者
中间的问题对於我们有限的思维来说太大了
我得用个比喻来回答
人类的思维，不管获得了怎样的高度训练它都不可能掌握住宇宙
我们的状况就像个小孩进入到一个巨大的图书馆中裏面的藏书有许多国家的文字
孩子知道是某些人写了那些书
但是不知道是怎麼写的也看不懂书上的语言
孩子模糊地怀疑书有一个神秘的排列顺序但是不知道是什麼
对我来说这样，就是一个最聪明的人类面对上帝时的样子
- 阿尔伯特·爱因斯坦，1930年


The most beautiful experience we can have 
is the mysterious. 
It is the fundamental emotion 
that stands at the cradle 
of true art and true science.
Whoever does not know it and can no longer wonder, 
no longer marvel,
is as good as dead, 
and his eyes are dimmed. 
It was the experience of mystery — 
even if mixed with fear — 
that engendered religion. 
A knowledge of the existence 
of something we cannot penetrate, 
our perceptions of the profoundest reason 
and the most radiant beauty, 
which only in their most primitive forms 
are accessible to our minds — 
it is this knowledge and this emotion 
that constitute true religiosity; 
in this sense, and in this alone, 
I am a deeply religious man. 
I cannot conceive of a God 
who rewards and punishes his creatures, 
or has a will of the kind 
that we experience in ourselves. 
Neither can I nor would I want to conceive 
of an individual that survives 
his physical death; 
let feeble souls, 
from fear or absurd egoism, 
cherish such thoughts. 
I am satisfied with the mystery 
of the eternity of life 
and with the awareness 
and a glimpse of the marvelous structure 
of the existing world, 
together with the devoted striving 
to comprehend a portion, 
be it ever so tiny, 
of the Reason
that manifests itself in nature.
- Albert Einstein, 1931

体验神秘是最美妙的
真正的艺术和真正的科学正是萌芽于这种最原始的情感
任何一个不懂得这点也不再会对此感到神奇为之惊叹的人
就如行尸走肉一般他的眼睛将毫无神采可言
正是人们对神秘的体验—尽管也夹杂着恐惧—使宗教得以诞生
我们知道存在未知的事物
我们感觉到有最深奥的"理"和最灿烂的"美"
它们以最原始的形式出现时我们才能意识到
正是这种认知和这种情感构成了真正的宗教情结
从这个意义讲，也仅仅是从这个意义讲我是个虔诚的信教者
我无法构想出一个奖赏和处罚自己所造之物的上帝
也无法设想上帝具有我们身上所体现的那种意志
我既不能也不会设想居然会有一个在其肉体死亡后仍能生存的人
让脆弱的人们出于恐惧或愚蠢的利己思想而这样想吧。
我对生命永恒所具的神秘
对现存世界神奇结构的觉察和少许了解感到满足
包括我力图去理解的自然本身显露出来的
"理"
中的一小部分尽管这部分微不足道
- 阿尔伯特·爱因斯坦，1931年


Looked at on the astronomical time-scale,
humanity is at the very beginning of its existence —
a new-born babe,
with all the unexplored potentialities of babyhood;
and until the last few moments 
its interest has been centred,
absolutely and exclusively,
on its cradle and feeding-bottle.
It has just become conscious of the vast world
existing outside itself and its cradle;
it is learning to focus its eyes on distant objects,
and its awakening brain is beginning to wonder,
in a vague, dreamy way, what they are
and what purpose they serve.
Its interest in this external world
is not much developed yet,
so that the main part of its faculties
is still engrossed with the cradle and feeding-bottle,
but a little corner of its 
brain is beginning to wonder.       
- James Jeans, 1928

看看天文学的时标人类还处于其存在的最开始时期—
就像一个初生的婴儿有着婴儿独有的未曾发现可能性
而直到最近他的兴趣才有所聚焦
对自己所在的摇篮和奶瓶带有绝对专注的注意力
他刚刚对自己和摇篮之外存在的广大世界有所意识
他正在学习将自己的双眼注视在远处的物体而他正在觉醒的大脑
就要开始以一种模糊、如梦般的方式开始思考自身的存在和自己的目的
对这个外部世界的兴趣还没有完全成就
他的能力的主要部分还专注在摇篮和奶瓶之上
但是，这个小小的脑袋就要开始去思想了
- 詹姆斯·霍普伍德·金斯，1928年


In any case, our three-days-old infant 
cannot be very confident of any interpretation
it puts on a universe which it only 
discovered a minute or two ago.
We have said it has seventy years of life before it, 
but in truth its expectation of life
would seem to be nearer to 70,000 years.
It may be puzzled, distressed, and often irritated
at the apparent meaninglessness 
and incomprehensibility of the world
to which it has suddenly wakened up.
But it is still very young;
it might travel half the world over
before finding another baby
as young and inexperienced as itself. 
It has before it time enough and to spare 
in which it may understand everything.
Sooner or later the pieces of the puzzle 
must begin to fit together,
although it may reasonably be doubted
whether the whole picture can ever be comprehensible 
to one small, and apparently quite 
insignificant, part of the picture.
- James Jeans, 1928

不管是在哪种情况下我们刚出生三天的小婴儿
都无法对一两分钟前才发现的宇宙认知非常确信
我们说“在他的面前还有七十年的时光等待走过”但在事实上，他的预期寿命
将近有70,000年
在突然地醒来之后他可能会对明显的无意义和世界的无法理解
而感到迷惑、紧张和生气但是，他还非常年轻
恐怕要穿过半个世界才能找到同样一个和他自己一样年轻、缺乏经验的婴孩
在他的面前，还有足够的时间可以用来理解一切事物
拼图的碎片总有一天会拼到一起
然而，这整幅画面是否能被这个画面的
小小一部分理解这还真的是个问题
- 詹姆斯·霍普伍德·金斯，1928年


God bade me behold the sea,
and I saw the ships sinking
and the planks floating;
then the planks too were submerged.
And God said to me,
“Those who voyage are not saved.”
And He said to me, “Those who, instead of voyaging, 
cast themselves into the sea, take a risk.”
And He said to me, 
“Those who voyage and take no risk shall perish.”
And He said to me, 
“In taking the risk there is a part of salvation.”
And the wave came 
and lifted those beneath it 
and overran the shore.
And He said to me,
“The surface of the sea is a gleam that cannot be reached. 
“And the bottom is a darkness impenetrable. And between
the two are great fishes, which are to be feared.”
- Niffari, circa 970

[What?]

上帝让我看着大海我看到了船只下沉只余片木仍在
而后，木板也被海水淹没
上帝对我说“乘船之人不会得救。”
上帝说：“那些不乘船跳入海中的人，甘冒风险。”
上帝对我说“不冒风险的乘船者理应灭亡。”
上帝对我说“在风险之中，蕴藏有救赎。”
波涛袭来将水下的人送到岸边
上帝对我说“大海的表面是无法到达的闪光。
而海底则是无尽的黑暗二者之间藏着可怖的大鱼”
- Niffari，约970年

[啥？]


God bade me behold the sea,
and I saw the ships sinking
and the planks floating;
then the planks too were submerged.
And God said to me,
“Those who voyage are not saved.”
And He said to me, “Those who, instead of voyaging, 
cast themselves into the sea, take a risk.”
And He said to me, 
“Those who voyage and take no risk shall perish.”
And He said to me, 
“In taking the risk there is a part of salvation.”
And the wave came 
and lifted those beneath it 
and overran the shore.
And He said to me,
“The surface of the sea is a gleam that cannot be reached. 
“And the bottom is a darkness impenetrable. And between
the two are great fishes, which are to be feared.”
- Niffari, circa 970

[What?
I'm going to the store, do you want a sandwich or something?
You've been standing there for like an hour.
I didn't want to interrupt.
And I don't like sandwiches. Have you ever seen me with a sandwich? 
Why would you think I'd want a sandwich?
Sorry.
I need some sleep.
It's okay, we're all working hard.
I just want to read it right.  
We're going to be hearing this _a lot_ of times. 
Every little thing matters because it gets so multiplied.
It's good. It's already good.
Thanks. Yeah. But we've kind of picked high goal posts. 
Every little bit matters.
Can you get me a coffee?]

上帝让我看着大海我看到了船只下沉只余片木仍在
而后，木板也被海水淹没
上帝对我说“乘船之人不会得救。”
上帝说：“那些不乘船跳入海中的人，甘冒风险。”
上帝对我说“不冒风险的乘船者理应灭亡。”
上帝对我说“在风险之中，蕴藏有救赎。”
波涛袭来将水下的人送到岸边
上帝对我说“大海的表面是无法到达的闪光。
而海底则是无尽的黑暗二者之间藏着可怖的大鱼”
- Niffari，约970年

【啥？
我要去趟商店，你要三明治或别的什么吗？
你已经站在那里差不多一个小时了
我不想打扰
而且我不喜欢三明治你什么时候有看到过我吃三明治吗？为什么你觉得我会想吃三明治呢？
抱歉
是的，我得睡会
没关系，我们都够努力了
我刚想要读一点东西我们要把这个听上好多好多次关于它的一切都会成倍增加
很好它已经很好了
谢谢嗯但是，我们已经选择了高的目标所以每一点小事都很重要
能给我来点咖啡吗？】


There is nothing in existence but veils hung down. 
Acts of perception attach themselves 
only to veils, 
which leave traces in the owner 
of the eye that perceives them.
- Ibn Arabi, 1231

薄纱垂下，后面空无一物
认知仅仅停留在了薄纱之上
而透漏出了寻求认知的主人
- Ibn Arabi，1231年


I thought my voyage had come to its end
at the last limit of my power — 
that the path before me was closed,
the provisions exhausted,
and the time come to take shelter in silent obscurity.
But I find that thy will knows no end in me
And when words die out on the tongue,
new melodies break forth from the heart;
And where old tracks are lost,
New country is revealed with its wonders.
- Rabindranath Tagore, 1910

我以为我的精力已尽旅程已终—
前路已绝储粮已尽退隐在静默鸿蒙中的时间已经到来
但是我发现你的意志在我身上不知终点
旧的言语刚在舌尖上死去新的音乐又从心上进来
旧辙方迷新的田野又在面前奇妙地展开
- 拉宾德拉纳特·泰戈尔，1910年


Ever in my life have I sought thee with my songs.
It was they who led me from door to door,
and with them I have felt about me,
searching and touching my world.

It was my songs that taught me
all the lessons I ever learnt;
they showed me secret paths,
they brought before my sight many a star
on the horizon of my heart.

They guided me all the day long
to the mysteries of the country of pleasure and pain,

and, at last,
to what palace gate have they brought me
in the evening at the end of my journey?
- Rabindranath Tagore, 1910

我这一生永远以诗歌来寻求你它们领我从这门走到那门
我和它们一同摸索寻求着，接触着我的世界

我所学过的功课都是诗歌教给我的
它们把捷径指示给我它们把我心里地平线的许多星辰带到我的眼前

它们整天地带领我走向苦痛和快乐的神秘之国
最后在我旅程终点的黄昏它们要把我带到了哪一座宫殿的门首呢？
- 拉宾德拉纳特·泰戈尔，1910年


I boasted among men that I had known you.
They see your pictures in all works of mine.
They come and ask me, "Who is he?"
I know not how to answer them.
I say, "Indeed, I cannot tell."
They blame me and they go away in scorn.
And you sit there smiling.

I put my tales of you into lasting songs.
The secret gushes out from my heart.
They come and ask me, 
"Tell me all your meanings."
I know not how to answer them.
I say, "Ah, who knows what they mean!"

They smile and go away in utter scorn.
And you sit there smiling.
- Rabindranath Tagore, 1910

我在人前夸说我认得你
在我的作品中，他们看到了你的画像他们走来问：“他是谁？”
我不知道怎么回答我说，“真的，我说不出来。”
他们斥责我，轻蔑地走开了你却坐在那里微笑

我把你的事迹编成不朽的诗歌秘密从我心中涌出
他们走来问我：“把所有的意思都告诉我们罢。”
我不知道怎么我说：“呵，谁知道那是什么意思！”

他们哂笑了，鄙夷之极地走开你却坐在那里微笑
-拉宾德拉纳特·泰戈尔，1910年


Our hangnails are incredibly real to us;
whereas to most of us, the English village of Nether Wallop 
and the high Himalayan country of Bhutan, 
not to mention the slowly swirling spiral galaxy in Andromeda, 
are considerably less real, 
even though our intellectual selves might wish to insist 
that since the latter are much bigger and longer-lasting 
than our hangnails, 
they ought therefore to be far realer to us 
than our hangnails are.
We can say this to ourselves till we’re blue in the face, 
but few of us act as if we really believed it.  
A slight slippage of subterranean stone 
that obliterates 20,000 people in some far-off land, 
the ceaseless plundering of virgin jungles in the Amazon basin, 
a swarm of helpless stars being swallowed up 
one after another by a ravenous black hole, 
even an ongoing collision between two huge galaxies 
each of which contains a hundred billion stars —
such colossal events are so abstract to someone like me 
that they can’t even touch the sense of urgency and importance, 
and thus the reality, of some measly little hangnail 
on my left hand’s pinky.
We are all egocentric, and what is realest to each of us, in the
end, is ourself.  
The realest things of all are 
my knee, my nose, my anger, my hunger, 
my toothache, my sideache, my sadness, my joy,
my love for math, my abstraction ceiling, and so forth.
What all these things have in common, what binds them together, 
is the concept of "my", 
which comes out of the concept of "I" or "me", 
and therefore, 
although it is less concrete than a nose or even a toothache, 
this "I" thing is what ultimately seems to each of us 
to constitute the most solid rock of undeniability of all.  
Could it possibly be an illusion?  
Or if not a total illusion, could it possibly be less real 
and less solid than we think it is?  
Could an "I" be more like an elusive, receding, 
shimmering rainbow 
than like a tangible, heftable, transportable pot of gold?
- Douglas Hofstadter, 2007

倒刺，对我们来说无比真实
纵使我们精神上的自我想要强调村庄、国家和星云比我们手上的倒刺
更为巨大而持久对我们来说，它们理应比倒刺更加真实
然而，对于我们之中的大多数人来说英国的NetherWallop村庄和高海拔的喜马拉雅之国不丹
都不算现实更不用说仙女座缓缓旋转的螺旋状星系
我们可以对自己述说这个事实，直到自己精疲力尽但我们之中很少有人真正地相信
在某个遥远国度中，地中海一块石头的轻微滑移令20,000人从此消失
亚马逊盆地中对原始雨林的不断开伐
大批大批无助的星辰前仆后继地被贪婪的黑洞大口吞噬
即便是两个各自都包含了千亿星辰的巨型星系间正在进行的碰撞
如此宏伟的事件，深深吸引如我一般的人但却无法激起紧迫感和重要感
还不如我左手上的少少几个倒刺更为令人感到真实
我们都是自我中心的生物，对我们每一个人来说最为真切的事物，归根结底，是我们自己
我们的最真切事物，无非我的膝盖、我的鼻子、我的愤怒、我的饥饿我的牙痛、我的偏头痛、我的
伤、我的快乐
我对数学的热爱、我的抽象天花板，诸如此类
这些事物具有共性，将它们束到一起的这个共性就是“我的”这个概念
而它有来自于概念“我”因此
虽然这个概念比鼻子甚至牙疼较为薄弱“我”这个概念，对我们每个人来说仍在所有无法否认事物中构
了最为坚实的一块巨石
它会不会成为一个幻觉？或者，即使不是完全的幻觉，是否可以不那么真实不像我们所想象那样坚不
破？
“我”这个概念是否能更像一道飘忽不定、色彩模糊微微发亮的彩虹而不是如同一桶有形有质、可被
窃、会被搬走的一桶金子？
- 道格拉斯·霍夫施塔特，2007年


The physicist Wolfgang Pauli once spoke
of two limiting conceptions, 
both of which have been extraordinarily fruitful 
in the history of human thought, 
although no genuine reality corresponds to them. 
At one extreme is the idea of an objective world, 
pursuing its regular course in space and time, 
independently of any kind of observing subject;
this has been the guiding image of modern science.  
At the other extreme is the idea of a subject, 
mystically experiencing the unity of the world 
and no longer confronted by an object 
or by any objective world; 
this has been the guiding image of Asian mysticism.  
Our thinking moves somewhere in the middle, 
between these two limiting conceptions; 
we should maintain the tension resulting 
from these two opposites.
- Werner Heisenberg, 1974

物理学家沃尔夫冈·泡利曾经提到过两个极限概念
尽管没有现实对应此二者都在人类思想史上硕果累累
其中一个极端是客观世界在时间和空间中追寻固定进程
独立于任意类型的观测对象这种极端成为了现代科学的指导
而另一个极端则是一种思想神秘地解释世界的整体
并且不再被物体或客观世界所对立
这是亚洲神秘主义的理念
我们的思考在这二者之间移动介乎两个极限概念
我们应当维持由着两个对立面所产生的作用力
- 沃纳·海森堡，1974年


In a sense, what modern physics is to the history of Western thought,
Zen is to the development of the Eastern worldview: 
the ultimate refinement of more than two thousand years 
of incisive debate, discussion, and critical development. 
Yet the difference between the two could hardly be more marked. 
Whereas physics is interested above all 
in theories, concepts, and formulas, 
Zen values only the concrete and the simple. 
Zen wants facts — not in the Western sense of things 
that are measurable and numerical (which are, in fact, abstractions!) 
but as living, immediate, and tangible. 
Its approach to understanding is not to theorize 
because it recognizes that previously accumulated ideas and knowledge — 
in other words, memories of all kinds — 
block the direct perception of reality. 
Therefore, Zen adopts an unusual approach. 
Its buildup involves language — which is unavoidable. 
Any method, even if it turns out to be an antimethod, 
has first to convey some background in order to be effective. 
But the way Zen uses language is always to point 
beyond language, beyond concepts to the concrete.
- David Darling, 1996

在某种意义上，现在物理学是西方思想的历史禅宗则印证了东方世界观的发展：
经历了超过两千年的提纯历经无数深刻讨论研究，无数关键发展
而二者之间的差异很难表示出来
物理学对万物在理论、概念上作出解释，产生公式而禅宗则只凝聚和简化
禅宗要的是事实—并非西方所言的可以测量和量化的事物（也就是，抽象！）而是和生活一样，直接
切实
它偏向理解而非理论化原因在于它认为之前累积的理念和知识—
换句话说，也就是各种各样的记忆—会阻碍对现实的直接感悟
因此，禅宗采用了一种非同寻常的方法它的发展涉及到语言—不可避免
任何方法，即便是不利的方法首先都要传达一些背景才能有所成就
但禅宗使用语言的方法却始终超越了语言超越了凝聚的概念
- 大卫·达伶，1996年


Two major schools of Zen exist in Japan: 
the Rinzai and the Soto. 
Both have the same goal, of seeing the world unmediated, 
but their approaches are different. 
In the Soto school, the emphasis is on quiet contemplation 
in a seated position without a particular focus for thought. 
The method in the Rinzai school, however, 
is to put the intellect to work on problems 
that have no logical resolution. 
Such problems are known as koans, 
from the Chinese kung-an meaning “public announcement.”
Some are mere questions, for example:
“When your mind is not dwelling 
on the dualism of good and evil, 
what is your original face before you were born?”

Others are set in a question-and-answer form, like:
“What is the Buddha?” 
Answer: “Three pounds of flax” 
or “The cypress tree in the courtyard” 
(to name but two of the classic responses). 
According to tradition 
there are seventeen hundred such conundrums 
in the Zen repertoire. 
And their common aim is 
to induce a kind of intellectual catastrophe, 
a sudden jump 
which lifts the individual out of the domain of words and reason 
into a direct, nonmediated experience known as satori.

Zen differs from other meditative forms, 
including other schools of Buddhism, 
in that it does not start from where we are 
and gradually lead us to a clear view 
of the true way of the world. 
It is not a progressive system in this respect. 
The sole purpose of studying Zen is to have Zen experiences —
sudden moments, like flashes of lightning, 
when the intellect is short-circuited 
and there is no longer a barrier 
between the experiencer and reality. 
- David Darling, 1996

在日本，禅宗分为两个派别：临济宗和曹洞宗
两个派别有着统一的目标，看到世界的本质但它们采取的方法却大不相同
曹洞宗强调放空心绪打坐静思
而临济宗则是将灵智投诸无法以逻辑解决的问题之中对其进行解读
这些问题被称作“koan”取自中文“公案”一词，意为“公示”
有一些是纯粹的问题，例如：
“如果你的心不在善恶二元之间那么在你出生之前你的最初面目是什么样子？”

其他则有问有答，比如：
“什么是佛？”
答曰：“三磅亚麻”或“庭中松柏”（众多经典回答中的两个）
根据传统在禅宗经卷里有一千七百个这类难题
它们的共同目的在于引发某种心智的激越
一种突然的跳脱将人从言辞和情理的领域中飞升出来上升到一种称为“顿悟”的直接体验

禅宗与其他冥想形式不同甚至与佛教不同
佛教不会立足于我们的所在并且逐渐引领我们前去透彻了解世界真谛
在这一方面，禅宗不是一个循序渐进的体系
学习禅宗的唯一目的就是获得禅性的体验—在心智产生火花的时刻
忽如其来，如闪电划过于是，在经验者和现实之间不再会有藩篱
- 大卫·达伶，1996年


A poet once said, "The whole universe is in a glass of wine." 
We will probably never know in what sense he meant that, 
for poets do not write to be understood. 
But it is true that if we look at a glass of wine 
closely enough we see the entire universe. 
There are the things of physics: 
the twisting liquid which evaporates 
depending on the wind and weather, 
the reflections in the glass, 
and our imagination adds the atoms. 
The glass is a distillation of the earth’s rocks, 
and in its composition we see the secrets of the
universe’s age, and the evolution of stars. 
What strange array of chemicals are in the wine? 
How did they come to be? 
There are the ferments, the enzymes, 
the substrates, and the products. 
There in wine is found the great generalization: 
all life is fermentation.
Nobody can discover the chemistry of wine without discovering, 
as did Louis Pasteur, the cause of much disease. 
How vivid is the claret, pressing its existence 
into the consciousness that watches it! 
If our small minds, for some convenience, 
divide this glass of wine, this universe, into parts —
physics, biology, geology, astronomy, 
psychology, and so on — 
remember that nature does not know it! 
So let us put it all back together, 
not forgetting ultimately what it is for. 
Let it give us one more final pleasure:
drink it and forget it all!
- Richard Feynman, 1963

一位诗人曾说过：“宇宙尽在杯酒之中”
我们可能永远不会知道他的意思毕竟诗歌不是写来让人理解的
然而，在我们看着一杯酒的时候只要你足够靠近，你真的能看到整个宇宙
在就被里面，存在着许多物理：旋转的酒液依照风力和天气而蒸发
玻璃杯的反射在加上我们想象中的原子
玻璃是地球岩石的精华而从它的组成之中我们看到宇宙的岁月和星辰的衍化
酒里面那些奇怪的化学阵列是什么？它们是怎么形成的？
在酒里面有酵素、有酶有酶作用物和生成物
在酒里面的普遍原理是发酵即生命
任何人，即便是巴斯德不发现许多疾病的成因，也就无法发现酒的化学成因
看，红酒的颜色多么鲜艳让人为之着迷！
如果我们小小的心，出于便利能将一杯酒、这个宇宙分割为多个部分—
物理、生物、地质、天文心理等等—
但自然并不懂得这些！
所以，让我们不要忘记它们的作用地将一切拉回原地
让我们给自己最后的快乐：喝下这杯酒，忘掉它吧！
- 理查德·费曼，1963年


If we were not able or did not desire to look in any new direction,
if we did not have a doubt or recognize ignorance, 
we would not get any new ideas.  
There would be nothing worth checking, 
because we would know what is true.  
So what we call scientific knowledge today
is a body of statements of varying degrees of certainty.  
Some of them are most unsure; some of them are nearly sure; 
but none is absolutely certain.  Scientists are used to this.  
We know that it is consistent to be able to live and not know.  
Some people say,
“How can you _live_ without knowing?” I do not know what they mean.
I always live without knowing.  That is easy.  
How you get to know is what I want to know.
This freedom to doubt is an important matter in the sciences 
and, I believe, in other fields.  
It was born of a struggle.  
It was a struggle to be permitted to doubt, to be unsure.
And I do not want us to forget the importance of the struggle 
and, by default, to let the thing fall away.  
I feel a responsibility as a scientist 
who knows the great value 
of a satisfactory philosophy of ignorance, 
and the progress made possible by such a philosophy, 
progress which is the fruit of freedom of thought.  
I feel a responsibility to proclaim the value of this freedom 
and to teach that doubt is not to be feared, 
but that it is to be welcomed 
as the possibility of a new potential for human beings.
If you know that you are not sure, 
you have a chance to improve the situation.  
I want to demand this freedom for future generations.
- Richard Feynman, 1963

如果我们不能，或者不渴望向某个方面进行调查如果我们没有疑问，或者不明何为无知
我们就没法获得新的理念由于已经知道什么是真所以没有值得一看的事情
所以，我们现在所说的科学知识在实质上是各种具有不同程度确定性的声明
其中一部分极为不确定；一些近乎确定；但没有绝对确定的内容科学家对此习以为常
我们知道，能够活着和能够不知道是可以并存的
而有些人说“你怎么能在不知道的情况下生存呢？”我不知道他们说的是什么意思
我一直都是在不知道的情况下生存的这很简单你们了解的方式就是我想要知道的内容
这种怀疑的自由在科学中很重要而且，我相信，在别的领域中也是一样人生而斗争
这是一个允许怀疑、允许不确定的斗争
而我并不希望我们忘却掉斗争的重要性也不愿意按照一贯的方式让他被抛却
身为科学家我知晓无知者的满意哲学以及通过这种哲学所产生的进展
这种进展是自由思想的成就我对此有着责任感
我认为有责任去宣扬这种自由的价值并且有必要去教授不对怀疑产生畏惧
而应将其作为人类新潜力的可能性而对其进行欢迎
如果你知道自己不确定你就有机会去改善这一状况
我希望，这种自由，在今后的世代中能有所体现
- 理查德·费曼，1963年


It is a great adventure to contemplate the universe, beyond man, 
to contemplate what it would be like without man, 
as it was in a great part of its long history 
and as it is in a great majority of places.
When this objective view is finally attained, 
and the mystery and majesty of matter are fully appreciated, 
to then turn the objective eye back on man viewed as matter, 
to view life as part of this universal mystery 
of the greatest depth, 
is to sense an experience which is very rare, and very exciting.  
It usually ends in laughter and a delight in the futility 
of trying to understand what this atom in the universe is, 
this thing — atoms with curiosity — 
that looks at itself and wonders why it wonders.
Well, these scientific views end in awe and mystery, 
lost at the edge in uncertainty, 
but they appear to be so deep and so impressive 
that the theory that it is all arranged as a stage for God to watch
man’s struggle for good and evil seems inadequate.

Some will tell me 
that I have just described a religious experience. 
Very well, you may call it what you will. 
Then, in that language I would say 
that the young man’s religious experience is of such a kind 
that he finds the religion of his church inadequate to describe, 
to encompass that kind of experience. 
The God of the church isn’t big enough.
- Richard Feynman, 1963

超脱人类思考宇宙是一种冒险思考没有人类，宇宙是什么样子
在宇宙的长久历史中，人类出现的时间很短而人类所涉足的地方也还很少
在最终获得这种客观视角并且物质的神秘和威严得到充分认知之后
将客观的目光转回人类自身，将人类作为物质将生命看做这个宇宙最深沉的神秘的一部分
这样，你会感受到非常稀有，令人兴奋异常的体验
尝试了解这个原子在宇宙中的地位这样的尝试常常会在嘲笑和因徒劳而感到的快乐告终
这种事物—好奇的原子—会反观自身，思考自身为什么会思考
好吧，这些科学观念会以敬畏和神秘告终迷失在不确定的悬崖之巅但在理论中，它们是如此地深邃和
人印象深刻
编排起来，就像是上帝的一座舞台上演人类在善恶之间的争斗仍犹有不足

有些人会说，我刚说的是一种宗教上体验很好，如果你想那么说，那就那么说吧
那么，在这个方向上，我要说年轻人的宗教体验就是这个样子
他会觉得他所在的宗教不足以去说明不足以去包容这种类型的体验
那这个宗教的上帝，还不够伟大
- 理查德·费曼，1963年


Of all the communities available to us, 
there is not one I would want to devote myself to, 
except for the society of true searchers 
which has very few living members at any time.
- Albert Einstein, 1924

在所有的团体中除了真正研究者的社团之外
没有一个能让我想要为它而献身而不论是在哪个时代，真正的研究者都为数不多
- 阿尔伯特·爱因斯坦，1924年


“You see, a motif is this...”
(He put his hands together, drew them apart, the ten fingers open, 
then slowly, very slowly brought them together again, clasped them, 
squeezed them tightly, meshing them.)
“That’s what one should try to achieve. 
If one hand is held too high or too low, it won’t work. 
Not a single link should be too slack, leaving a hole through which the emotion, 
the light, the truth can escape. 
You must understand that I work on the whole canvas, 
on everything at once. 
With one impulse, with undivided faith, 
I approach all the scattered bits and pieces. 
Everything we see falls apart, vanishes, doesn’t it? 
Nature is always the same, but nothing in her that appears to us, lasts. 
Our art must render the thrill of her permanence 
along with her elements, 
the appearance of all her changes. 
It must give us a taste of her eternity. 
What is there underneath? Maybe nothing. 
Maybe everything. 
Everything, you understand! 
So I bring together her wandering hands. 
I take something at right, something at left, 
here, there, everywhere, 
her tones, her colors, her nuances, 
I set them down, I bring them together. 
They form lines. They become objects, 
rocks, trees, without my planning. 
They take on volume, value. 
If these volumes, these values, correspond on my canvas, 
in my sensibility, to the planes,
to the spots ... which are there before our eyes,
then my canvas has brought its hands together. 
It does not waver. 
The hands have been joined neither too high nor too low. 
My canvas is true, compact, full. 
But if there is the slightest distraction, 
if I fail just a little bit, above all if I interpret too much one day, 
if today I am carried away by a theory 
which runs counter to that of yesterday, 
if I think while I paint, if I meddle, 
whoosh! everything goes to pieces.
- Paul Cezanne as related by Joachim Gasquet, 1921

“你看，一个母题就是这样...”
（他将双手合拢，然后十指伸开接着慢慢地、非常缓慢地将手指合拢相扣紧紧地抱在一起，令它们相
啮合）
“这就是人应该尝试去达到的。如果一只手太高或太低，那就做不成
每个连接都不能松脱，不能令情感明暗、真实脱漏出去
你必须明白，我是对整体对所有的一切一起进行描绘
对于所有分散的小片我都是在一念之间以不可分割的方式进行描绘
我们看到的所有事物都会破碎消失，不是么？自然始终如一，但在自然之中，我们看到的事物，从无
久
我们的艺术必须连同组成自然的各种要素表现出对自然永恒的战栗感表现出自然的所有变化之貌这样
能让我们体会自然永恒之美
那边的下面是什么？也许什么也没有也许什么都有什么都有，你懂的！
所以，我把自然游曳的双手拉到一起把一些放在左边，一些放在右边这里、那里
到处放满她的声音、她的颜色、她的微妙我把它们放下来，把它们放在一起
它们构成线条它们变成物体变成岩石树木，无须我的计划它们呈现出声音、呈现出价值
钥匙这些声音、这些价值与我的画布一致在我的情感中，符合在我眼前呈现的点线面
那么我的画作就算是把自然的手牵到一起了
不会动摇合起来的双手不会太高也不会太低我的画作便真实、紧凑、充满内容
但是，如果有最轻微的变形如果我有轻微的失措，尤其是我做了过度的解读
如果我今天迷恋于某种理论而这种理论与昨日的理论背道而驰
如果我在绘画中思考，如果我在绘画中横加干涉哎！一切就都成了凌乱的碎片
- 保罗·塞尚，若亚香‧加斯克引述，1921年


I am standing on the threshold about to enter a room. 
It is a complicated business. 
In the first place, I must shove against an atmosphere 
pressing with a force of fourteen pounds 
on every square inch of my body. 
I must make sure of landing on a plank 
travelling at twenty miles a second round the sun — 
a fraction of a second too early or too late, 
the plank would be miles away. 
I must do this whilst hanging from a round planet 
head outward into space, 
and with a wind of aether blowing 
at no one knows how many miles a second
through every interstice of my body. 
The plank has no solidity of substance. 
To step on it is like stepping on a swarm of flies. 
Shall I not slip through? 
No, if I make the venture one of the flies hits me 
and gives a boost up again; 
I fall again and am knocked upwards by another fly; 
and so on. 
I may hope that the net result will be that I remain about steady, 
but if, unfortunately, I should slip through the floor 
or be boosted too violently up to the ceiling, 
the occurrence would be, not a violation of the laws of Nature, 
but a rare coincidence. These are some of the minor difficulties. 
I ought really to look at the problem four-dimensionally 
as concerning the intersection of my world-line 
with that of the plank. 
Then again, it is necessary to determine 
in which direction the entropy of the world is increasing 
in order to make sure that my passage over the threshold 
is an entrance, not an exit.
Verily, it is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle
than for a scientific man to pass through a door. 
And whether the door be barn door or church door 
it might be wiser 
that he should consent to be an ordinary man and walk in 
rather than wait till all the difficulties involved 
in a really scientific ingress 
are resolved.
- Arthur Eddington, 1927

我站在门槛上正待进入一间屋子这真是一件复杂的事情
首先我必须推开大气，它正以每平方英寸十四磅的力量压迫着我
我还得吃准是否踏着这块以每秒二十四英里围绕太阳运行的木板上
只要疏忽之差它就远在数英里开外了
我在干这些的时候，其实是悬吊在一个圆形的星球上头朝着太空
星际的大风正以每秒不知多少英里的速度穿过我身体的缝隙
我脚下的这块木板没有任何质地上的坚固性踏在它上面就如同踏在一群苍蝇上面
我不会跌下去吗？
如果我冒险这样干的话，某个苍蝇会碰到我让我再次升起来
我再跌下去，再被另一个苍蝇踢回来如此往复
我或可以希望最终的结果是我仍在原地一动未动但如果我不幸跌到地板下面去或是猛地被推升到房顶
话
这并不违反自然规律只是一个不太常见的巧合罢了这些只是些小小的困难
我真的应该以四次元的方式看问题我的世界线与那块木板的世界线相交错
然后，又一次地，我们要确定世界的熵在那个方向上增加
从而确保我越过阈值是在进入，而不是在退出
不错，骆驼穿过针眼要比科学家走过门洞容易得多
但明智一些的办法还是乐于做一个普通人
不管是谷仓门还是教堂门径直往里走而不是等待有关真正科学的入口的一切难题被人解决
-  亚瑟·爱丁顿，1927年


As scientists, we realise that colour is merely a question 
of the wavelengths of aethereal vibrations, 
but that does not seem to have dispelled the feeling 
that eyes which reflect light near wavelength 4800 
are a subject for rhapsody 
whilst those which reflect wavelength 5300 
are left unsung. 
We have not yet reached the practice of the Laputans, who, 
“if they would, for example, praise the beauty of a
woman, or any other animal,
“they describe it by rhombs, circles,
parallelograms, ellipses, and other geometrical terms.” 
The materialist who is convinced that all phenomena 
arise from electrons and quanta and the like 
controlled by mathematical formulae, 
must presumably hold the belief 
that his wife is a rather elaborate differential equation, 
but he is probably tactful enough 
not to obtrude this opinion in domestic life. 
If this kind of scientific dissection 
is felt to be inadequate and irrelevant
in ordinary personal relationships, 
it is surely out of place 
in the most personal relationship of all — 
that of the human soul to a divine spirit.
- Arthur Eddington, 1927

作为科学家，我们了解色彩只不过是以太振动的波长
但看来这并不能消除一种感受：反射波长4800左右光线的眼睛我们认定它是诗意的对象
而反射5300波长的眼睛却不被人所歌颂
我们尚未到达飞岛居民的程度，它们“比如说，他们要赞美一位女性或者夸耀什么动物
他们会用菱形、圆形、平行四边形、椭圆形和其他几何术语加以描述。”
相信所有现象均由受到数学公式下的电子、量子和其他粒子所构成的唯物主义者们
大概坚定地认为他的妻子也是一个精巧的差分方程
但是，大概他会足够机智地让这个想法影响到每天的生活
如果说感觉这种类型的科学查究在日常的人际关系中还有不足和无关紧要
那么，在最为重要的人际关系—人类灵魂与圣灵的交流中它断然没有立足之地
- 亚瑟·爱丁顿，1927年


We have two kinds of knowledge which I call symbolic and intimate.
I do not know whether it would be correct to say 
that reasoning is only applicable to symbolic knowledge, 
but the more customary forms of reasoning 
have been developed for symbolic knowledge only. 
The intimate knowledge will not submit to codification and analysis, 
or, rather, when we attempt to analyse it 
the intimacy is lost and replaced by symbolism.

For an illustration let us consider Humour. 
I suppose that humour can be analysed to some extent 
and the essential ingredients 
of the different kinds of wit classified. 
Suppose that we are offered an alleged joke. 
We subject it to scientific analysis 
as we would a chemical salt of doubtful nature, 
and perhaps after careful consideration 
we are able to confirm 
that it really and truly is a joke. 
Logically, I suppose, our next procedure would be to laugh. 

But it may certainly be predicted 
that as the result of this scrutiny 
we shall have lost all inclination we ever had 
to laugh at it. 
It simply does not do to expose the workings of a joke. 
The classification concerns a symbolic knowledge of humour 
which preserves all the characteristics of a joke 
except its laughableness. 
The real appreciation must come spontaneously, 
not introspectively.

I think this is a not unfair analogy 
for our mystical feeling for Nature, 
and I would venture even to apply it 
to our mystical experience of God. 
There are some to whom the sense 
of a divine presence irradiating the soul 
is one of the most obvious things of experience. 
In their view, a man without this sense 
is to be regarded
as we regard a man without a sense of humour. 
The absence is a kind of mental deficiency. 
We may try to analyse the experience as we analyse humour, 
and construct a theology, 
or it may be an atheistic philosophy...
But let us not forget that the theology is symbolic knowledge, 
whereas the experience is intimate knowledge.
And as laughter cannot be compelled 
by the scientific exposition of the structure of a joke, 
so a philosophic discussion of the attributes of God 
(or an impersonal substitute) 
is likely to miss the intimate response of the spirit 
which is the central point of the religious experience.
- Arthur Eddington, 1927

我们有两种类型的知识，我称为象征性和密切性
推理只适合象征性的知识我不知道这样说是否正确
但推理更为惯用的形式是只为象征性知识所用的
密切性的知识无法变成经典，也无法进行分析不然的话，就在我们尝试对它进行分析的同时密切性就
失了，变成了象征性

为了说明，我们取“幽默”为例
我认为，在某种程度上，幽默是可以分析的不同种类的智慧可以分类成最核心的要素
假设，我们听到了一个所谓的笑话出于我们的怀疑天性可能还有认真考虑
我们会对它进行科学分析我们才可以确认这真的是一个笑话
逻辑上来说，我认为，下一个步骤就是发笑了

但是，可以预测到的是经过这么一番详细审查我们应该早就已经消失了对其大笑一番的兴趣
还是不要公开笑话的机理吧
这一分类涉及与幽默相关的象征性知识保留了笑话的所有特性但失去了令人发笑的能力
真正的欣赏必须是出于无意识的不需要反思

对于我们对大自然的神秘感受我认为这还算一个公平的类比
而我，甚至会冒险将它应用到我们对于上帝的神秘体验中去
对某些人而言感受神圣存在对灵魂的照耀是最为明显的体验之一
以他们的观点没有这类感受的人就如同我们所认定的缺乏幽默感的人一般
这种缺少是一种心智上的缺失
我们可以按照分析幽默的方式来尝试分析这种体验并且由此构筑理论或者说，它是个无神论的哲学
题...
然而，不要忘记，神学识一种象征性的知识而体验是密切性的
笑话的科学阐释会让你笑不出来
那么，对上帝（或客观替代物）进行哲学讨论
也就很有可能会失掉由心而生的亲切回应而这种回应，恰恰就是宗教体验的核心
 - 亚瑟·爱丁顿，1927年


One day I happened to be occupied with the subject of 
“Generation of Waves by Wind.”
I took down the standard treatise on hydrodynamics,
and under that heading I read —
If the external forces p’ yy, p’ xy be given
multiples of e ** (ikx + at), where k and a are prescribed,
the equations in question determine A and C, 
and thence, by (9) the value of eta....
 

And so on for two pages. At the end, it is made clear 
that a wind of less than half a mile an hour 
will leave the surface unruffled.
At a mile an hour the surface is covered 
with minute corrugations due to capillary waves 
which decay immediately if the disturbing cause ceases. 
At two miles an hour the gravity waves appear. 
As the author modestly concludes, 
“Our theoretical investigations give considerable
insight into the incipient stages of wave-formation.”

On another occasion the same subject 
of “Generation of Waves by Wind” 
was in my mind; 
but this time another book was more appropriate, 
and I read —
There are waters blown by changing winds to laughter 
And lit by the rich skies, all day. And after,
Frost, with a gesture, stays the waves that dance 
And wandering loveliness. He leaves a white
Unbroken glory, a gathered radiance, 
A width, a shining peace, under the night.

The magic words bring back the scene. 
Again we feel Nature drawing close to us, 
uniting with us, 
til we are filled with the gladness of the waves 
dancing in the sunshine, 
with the awe of the moonlight on the frozen lake. 
These were not moments when we fell below ourselves. 
We do not look back on them and say, 
“It was disgraceful for a man with six sober senses 
and a scientific understanding 
to let himself be deluded in that way. 
“I will take Lamb’s Hydrodynamics with me next time.” 

It is good that there should be such moments for us. 
Life would be stunted and narrow 
if we could feel no significance in the world around us 
beyond that which can be weighed and measured
with the tools of the physicist 
or described by the metrical symbols of the mathematician.

Of course, it was an illusion. 
We can easily expose the rather clumsy trick 
that was played on us. 
Aethereal vibrations of various wavelengths, 
reflected at different angles 
from the disturbed interface between air and water, 
reached our eyes, and by photoelectric action 
caused appropriate stimuli to travel along the optic nerves 
to a brain-centre. 
Here the mind set to work 
to weave an impression out of the stimuli. 
The incoming material was somewhat meagre, 
but the mind is a great storehouse of associations 
that could be used to clothe the skeleton. 
Having woven an impression, the mind 
surveyed all that it had made 
and decided that it was very good. 
The critical faculty was lulled. 
We ceased to analyse and were conscious 
only of the impression as a whole. 
The warmth of the air, the scent of the grass, 
the gentle stir of the breeze, 
combined with the visual scene 
in one transcendent impression, 
around us and within us. 
Associations emerging from their storehouse grew bolder. 
Perhaps we recalled the phrase “rippling laughter.” 
Waves—ripples—laughter—gladness—the ideas jostled one another. 
Quite illogically, we were glad, 
though what there can possibly be to be glad about 
in a set of aethereal vibrations 
no sensible person can explain. 
A mood of quiet joy suffused the whole impression. 
The gladness in ourselves was in Nature, 
in the waves, everywhere. 
That’s how it was.
It was an illusion. Then why toy with it longer? 
These airy fancies which the mind, 
when we do not keep it severely in order, 
projects into the external world 
should be of no concern to the earnest seeker after truth. 
Get back to the solid substance of things, 
to the material of the water moving 
under the pressure of the wind 
and the force of gravitation 
in obedience to the laws of hydrodynamics. 
But the solid substance of things is another illusion. 
It too is a fancy projected by the mind 
into the external world. 
We have chased the solid substance 
from the continuous liquid to the atom, 
from the atom to the electron, 
and there we have lost it. 
But at least, it will be said, 
we have reached something real at the end of the chase — 
the protons and electrons. 
Or, if the new quantum theory condemns these images 
as too concrete and leaves us with no coherent images at all,
at least we have symbolic coordinates and momenta and Hamiltonian
functions devoting themselves with single-minded purpose to ensuring
that qp-pq shall be equal to ih/2π.

I have tried to show that by following this course 
we reach a cyclic scheme which, from its very nature, 
can only be a partial expression of our environment. 
It is not reality but the skeleton of reality. 
“Actuality” has been lost in the exigencies of the chase. 
Having first rejected the mind as a worker of illusion 
we have in the end to return to the mind and say, 
“Here are worlds well and truly built 
on a basis more secure than your fanciful illusions. 
But there is nothing to make any one of them an actual world. 
“Please choose one and weave your fanciful images into it. 
That alone can make it actual.” 
We have torn away the mental fancies 
to get at the reality beneath, 
only to find that the reality of that which is beneath 
is bound up with its potentiality of awakening these fancies. 
It is because the mind, the weaver of illusion, 
is also the only guarantor of reality 
that reality is always to be sought at the base of illusion. 
Illusion is to reality as the smoke to the fire. 
I will not urge that hoary untruth “There is no smoke without fire”. 
But it is reasonable to inquire whether, 
in the mystical illusions of man, 
there is not a reflection of an underlying reality.
- Arthur Eddington, 1927

某天，我恰好在研究一个课题“由风产生的波的形成”
我记下了流体力学的标准论文然后，在标题之下，我看到—
假设外力p’yy,p’xy乘以e**(ikx+at)，其中k与a已知所讨论的方程则确定A和C
并由此，根据(9)，eta的值...
诸如此类，填满了两张纸在最后，它陈清了风速低于每小时半英里的风不会令水面产生波澜
风速达到每小时一英里水面会因表面张力波而有轻微起伏扰动原因消失后会立即消失
风速达到每小时二英里，则会出现重力波作者谦虚地做了总结：
“我们的理论研究对于波浪形成的前期阶段得出了相当深刻的见解”

而在另一场合，也是这个“由风产生的波的形成”主题我也记忆在心
但这另一本书则更为得体它说道—
（大意）善变的风令水面洋溢出笑脸明亮的天空映照，光芒耀眼然后
寒风漂亮地四处飘荡优雅地定过舞动的波浪他留下一片白色
一片连续的荣光、一道凝聚的光辉长夜中落下宽广闪烁的宁静

这些神奇的话语令那篇景色历历在目又一次，我们感觉到大自然贴近了我们和我们凝聚在一起
我们为波浪在阳光中的舞蹈感到欣喜无比对冰湖上闪耀的月光感到敬畏万分
这些可不是我们自惭形秽的时候我们不会回顾到这些景象，然后说
“一个有着七情六欲并且了解科学的人让他自己如此失态，实在有失体统
下次我会带上兰姆的《流体力学》”

对于我们来说，有这样的瞬间实属良事
如果我们不能超脱物理学家们用工具作出的测量和数学家们的测量符号
感受到身边世界的伟大之处我们的生活将会狭隘而无趣

当然，这只是一种猜想这种玩弄人的蹩脚把戏我们很容易就能拆穿
不同波长的以太波动以不同的角度在空气和水之间被扰动的接触面反射出来到达我们的眼睛
通过光电作用产生合适的刺激通过视神经传达到大脑中心
头脑此时便开始运作从刺激编制出印象
传入的内容可能有些薄弱但大脑存有许多的联想可以为瘦弱的内容添上色彩
有了编织出的印象大脑就会在过去的经历中寻求并且确定最佳的一个
关键的官能到此停歇我们停止分析并将印象作为整体认知
温暖的空气，草地的清香和风吹絮
和眼中的美景一道在我们的周围和内心之中构成一幅美丽卓绝的景象
从经验中涌现的关系变得更为牢固也许我们说“笑声荡漾”
波浪-波纹-笑声-快乐，这样的想法便会一个接一个地出现非常没有逻辑性地，我们就这样开心了起来
以太的震动有什么可以开心的任何理智的人都没法解释
沉默的快乐情绪充满了整个印象我们本身的快乐就在自然之中在波浪之中，在一切地方这就是原因
那就是种幻觉那么为什么还要继续开心下去呢？这些如果没有整理好就会被头脑投射到外部世界的幻想
对于热切的真理寻觅者来说应当无关紧要
回到事情的实质吧对于水来说在风的压力
和重力的作用下移动的实质是要遵循流体力学的原理的
但事情的实质也是一个幻觉也是由头脑投射到外部世界的一种幻想
我们追寻着实质从湍流的液体到原子从原子到电子然后，我们失去了方向
但至少，我们能说在这段追逐中，我们达到了某种真实—光子和电子
或者，如果新的量子理论对这些形象加以批判认为它们过于具体，完全没有给我们一个连贯的印象
至少，我们还有符号坐标、动量和汉密尔顿函数可以用来一心一意地确保qp-pq=ih/2π

我曾经尝试通过这种方式来展现我们得出了一种循环的形式，然而，从其本质来说这种形式只能对我
的环境进行片面的表示
它不是现实，但是是现实的脉络
“实际”在追寻的中忙中已经丢失让心智从幻觉中脱离出来之后我们最终能够回归本心，说
“这是一个美好的世界基于比你美好的幻想更为稳固的基础之上“但是，不管是世界还是幻想，都没有
为实际世界的根本
“请选择一边，把你美好的印象投诸其中就这样让它成为现实”
我们撕下了心中的幻想了解到藏于背后的现实
只为了了解这些藏匿着的现实与这些幻想的出现存在潜在的密切关系
这是因为，心智这个幻觉的编织者同时也是现实的保证人现实总是基于幻觉而发现
幻觉与真实，正如烟与火我不会强调古老的谎言“无火不生烟”
然而，探寻在人类的神秘幻觉中是否存在潜在的真实反映这是一种有意义的探索
- 亚瑟·爱丁顿，1927年


Up there you go around every hour and a half, 
time after time after time.  
You wake up usually in the mornings.  
And just the way that the track of your orbits go, 
you wake up over the Mid-East, over North Africa.
As you eat breakfast you look out the window as you’re going past
and there’s the Mediterranean area, 
and Greece, and Rome, and North Africa, 
and the Sinai, the whole area.  
And you realize that in one glance that
what you’re seeing is what was the whole history of man for years —
the cradle of civilization....

And you go around down across North Africa 
and out over the Indian Ocean, 
and look up at that great subcontinent of India 
pointed down toward you as you go past it.  
And Ceylon off to the side, Burma, Southeast Asia, 
out over the Philippines, 
and up across that monstrous Pacific Ocean, 
vast body of water — 
you’ve never realized how big that is before.
And you finally come up across the coast of California 
and look for those friendly things:   
Los Angeles, and Phoenix, and on across El Paso 
and there’s Houston, there’s home, 
and you look and sure enough there’s the Astrodome. 
And you identify with that, you know — 
it’s an attachment.
And down across New Orleans and then looking down to the south 
and there’s the whole peninsula of Florida laid out.  
And all the hundreds of hours 
you spent flying across that route, 
down in the atmosphere, 
all that is friendly again.  
And you go out across the Atlantic Ocean and back across Africa.

And you do it again and again and again.

And that identity - that you identify with Houston, 
and then you identify with Los Angeles, 
and Phoenix and New Orleans and everything.  
And the next thing you recognize in yourself, 
is you’re identifying with North Africa.  
You look forward to that, you anticipate it.  
And there it is. 
That whole process begins to shift 
of what it is you identify with. 
When you go around it in an hour and a half 
you begin to recognize 
that your identity is with that whole thing.  
And that makes a change.
You look down there and you can’t imagine 
how many borders and boundaries you crossed 
again and again and again. 
And you don’t even see ’em. 
At that wake-up scene — the Mid-East — 
you know there are hundreds of people killing each other 
over some imaginary line that you can’t see.  
From where you see it, the thing is a whole, 
and it’s so beautiful.  
And you wish you could take one from each side in hand 
and say, 
“Look at it from this perspective. 
Look at that. What’s important?”
And so a little later on, your friend, those same neighbors,
another astronaut, the person next to you goes out to the Moon.  
And now he looks back and sees the Earth not as something big, 
where he can see the beautiful details, 
but he sees the Earth as a small thing out there.  
And now that contrast between 
that bright blue and white Christmas tree ornament 
and that black sky, that infinite universe, 
really comes through.
The size of it, the significance of it — 
it becomes both things, 
it becomes so small and so fragile, 
and such a precious little spot in that universe, 
that you can block it out with your thumb, 
and you realize that on that small spot, 
that little blue and white thing  
is everything that means anything to you. 
All of history and music and poetry and art 
and war and death and birth and love, tears, joy, 
games, 
all of it is on that little spot out there 
that you can cover with your thumb.
And you realize that that perspective ... 
that you’ve changed, that there’s something new there. 
That relationship is no longer what it was. 
And then you look back on the time 
when you were outside on that EVA 
and those few moments that you had the time 
because the camera malfunctioned, 
that you had the time to think about what was happening.  
And you recall staring out there at the spectacle 
that went before your eyes. Because now 
you’re no longer inside something 
with a window looking out at a picture, 
but now you’re out there 
and what you’ve got around your head 
is a goldfish bowl and there are no limits here. 
There are no frames, there are no boundaries. 
You’re really out there, over it, floating, 
going 25,000 mph, ripping through space, 
a vacuum, and there’s not a sound. 

There’s a silence 
the depth of which you’ve never experienced before, 
and that silence contrasts so markedly with the scenery, 
and the speed with which you know you’re going. 
That contrast, the mix of those two things, 
really comes through.
And you think about what you’re experiencing and why.  
Do you deserve this? This fantastic experience? 
Have you earned this in some way? 
Are you separated out to be touched by God 
to have some special experience here 
that other men cannot have? 
You know the answer to that is No. 
There’s nothing that you’ve done that deserves that, 
that earned that. 
It’s not a special thing for you. 
You know very well at that moment,
and it comes through to you so powerfully, 
that you’re the sensing element for man.

You look down and see the surface of that globe 
that you’ve lived on all this time 
and you know all those people down there. 
They are like you, they are you, 
and somehow you represent them when you are up there —
a sensing element, that point out on the end, 
and that’s a humbling feeling. 
It’s a feeling that says you have a responsibility. 
It’s not for yourself.

The eye that doesn’t see does not do justice to the body. 
That’s why it’s there, that’s why you’re out there. 
And somehow you recognize that you’re a piece of this total life. 
You’re out on that forefront 
and you have to bring that back, somehow. 
And that becomes a rather special responsibility.   
It tells you something about your relationship 
with this thing we call life....

And when you come back, there’s a difference in that world now, 
there’s a difference in that relationship 
between you and that planet, 
and you and all those other forms of life on that planet, 
because you’ve had that kind of experience.  
It’s a difference,
and it’s so precious. 
And all through this I’ve used the word “you” 
because it’s not me, it’s not Dave Scott, 
it’s not Dick Gordon, Pete Conrad, John Glenn, 
it’s you, it’s us, it’s we, it’s life.  
It’s had that experience. 
And it’s not just my problem to integrate, 
it’s not my challenge to integrate, my joy to integrate — 
it’s yours, it’s everybody’s.
- Russell Schweickart, 1975

在天上，你每一个半小时绕上一圈周而复始
你通常在早晨醒来在你所在的轨道上
你恰好在中东、北非上空醒来
早餐时间，望向窗外地中海地区到了
希腊、罗马、北非西奈半岛，整个地区都在你的眼前
而你意识到，这一瞥间你看见了人类的整个历史—
这是文明的摇篮...

然后，你在轨道上穿过北非来到印度洋的上空
抬头看到印度的巨大次大陆在你经过时指向你
而后，斯里兰卡在一侧消失，缅甸、东南亚越过菲律宾向北穿过太平洋
那无边的水域—你绝对想不到它有这么宽广
而最终，你穿越了加州的海岸寻找那些熟悉的城市：洛杉矶、凤凰城，穿过厄尔巴索
那儿就是休斯顿，家的味道然后你在地上寻找休斯顿体育馆，它肯定就在那里你认出了它，你知道—
是别的什么的附属
向下穿过新奥尔良，往南看去佛罗里达半岛在那里展开
在轨道上的数百个小时你飞过的这条轨道在大气层下的一切都再熟悉不过
穿过大西洋，再次跨越非洲

一次、又一次

然后又看到那个标志建筑-用来认出休斯顿的那个建筑然后看到洛杉矶看到凤凰城和新奥尔良，以及一
的一切
然后你发现到自己就要看到北非
你期待着，你期望着然后，它就在你眼前出现
整个过程开始变成你所共鸣的生活
在一个半小时的绕行中你开始认识到你与这一切同在这样，一切便有了变化
你向下看，然而却无法想象你一遍又一遍穿过的有多少的边界而你，却根本看不见
在你醒来时—在中东上空—你知道有成百上千的人正在为你看不到的想象界线而厮杀
从你的视点，世界是一个整体它是如此美丽你希望能伸出巨手，抓住两方告诉他们
“看，从这个地方看下去看看你们征战的地方还有什么是重要的？”
一会儿之后，你的朋友...另一位太空人，你旁边的那位，去到了月面
现在，他回头一看，地球不再那么巨大他可以看到美丽的细节
但在他眼中，地球只是一件小的事物
现在亮蓝的大气和白色的圣诞树装饰黑色的天空，那篇无尽的宇宙这份对比就此袭来
它的大小、它的伟大—变成了两个方面
地球变得如此之小，如此脆弱就像是宇宙中的一个小点你甚至可以一手掌握
而你知道，在这个小点上那点点蓝色和白色对你来说，不再意味着一切
所有的历史、音乐、诗歌、艺术所有的战争、生死、爱情、泪水、快乐所有的游戏
在那个小点上的一切你都能用一只大拇指来掩盖
你了解到，在这个角度上...你已经有了变化，发现了新的事物
关系不再像以前那般
回首看当时你在出舱活动那些因为摄像机故障而拥有的片刻时间
令你有时间思考发生的事情
你回想起在那里注视着从你眼前飞过的小望远镜因为现在你不再藏匿在某物之中透过窗口观看世界
现在，你已经出来了只有一个金鱼缸环绕着你的头没有更多的约束
没有框架、没有边界
你真正地超脱了出去，超越了、漂浮着以25,000mph的速度划过空间周围一片真空，没有声音

一片沉寂你从未体验过的沉寂与眼前景象和你所知的自身飞行速度
都与这片沉寂构成极为明显的对比
看到这份对比，这二者之间的混合这份对比就此袭来
你就会想到你的目的和原因你是否应该获得这份美景？这种如梦似幻的体验，你是否应该看到？你有
以某种方式赢得这种权利？
你是否接受了上帝的单独遴选从而获得了他人无法获得的某种特殊体验？
你知道，答案是“没有”你没有做那些令你应该来此的事情没有做那些令你赢得这一权利的事情
这不是专为你而设的特权此时此刻，你相当清楚你是为人类而感知这一切这种感受如此强烈

你向下看，看到长久以来你所居住的地表你知道，人们都在那里
他们和你一样，他们就是你而你在这里是因为你代表了他们—
最终被指名作为一名感知者这是一种卑微的感受这种感受，告诉你，你有着责任你来这里并非为你自
一人

作为人类之眼，你需要尽到对全人类的责任这是你在这里的原因
而你认识到，你是人类整体生命的一个部分
你正站在最前沿你需要将此情此感带回去
而这便变成一种极为特殊的责任
它告诉你你与人生这件事的关系

在你回来之后，你与世界之间便有了不同这是你与星球之间与星球上其他形式的生命之间
从关系上的变化一切就只因为你有着这种经验
它是不同的因此如此珍贵
之前所说，我一直用的是“你”因为这不是我，不是大卫·斯科特不是迪克·戈登、皮特·康拉德、约翰·格
这是你们，是我们，是生命一体
它拥有了那种体验而且，将这种经验融合一体，不是我面临的问题融合一体不是给我的挑战，融合一
的这种快乐—应当归你们、归每个人所有
- 拉塞尔·施威卡特，1975年


In the traditional view a person is free. 
He is autonomous in the sense that his behavior is uncaused... 
That view, together with its associated practices, 
must be re-examined when a scientific analysis 
reveals unexpected controlling relations 
between behaviour and environment....

By questioning the control exercised by autonomous man 
and demonstrating the control exercised by the environment, 
a science of behavior also seems to question dignity or worth.  
A person is responsible for his behavior, 
not only in the sense that he may be 
justly blamed or punished when he behaves badly, 
but also in the sense that he is to be given credit 
and admired for his achievements.  
A scientific analysis shifts the credit as well as the blame 
to the environment, 
and traditional practices can then no longer be justified.  
These are sweeping changes, 
and those who are committed to traditional theories and practices 
naturally resist them....

As the emphasis shifts to the environment, 
the individual seems to be exposed 
to a new kind of danger.  
Who is to construct the controlling environment 
and to what end?  
Autonomous man presumably controls himself 
in accordance with a built-in set of values; 
he works for what he finds good.  
But what will the putative controller find good, 
and will it be good for those he controls?

Answers to questions of this sort are said, of course, 
to call for value judgements.
- B.F. Skinner, 1971

传统观点中，人是自由的从无因行为这一意义上说，人是自主的...
在科学分析揭露了行为和环境之间意外的控制关系之后
这种看法，以及其相关实践都需要进行重新审视...

通过探寻自主个人进行的控制并演示由环境进行的控制
有一项行为科学也似乎在对尊严和个人价值发起质疑
人需要对自己的行为负责不仅仅是在行为不良时应受到谴责或惩罚
在因其成就而获得赞誉和仰慕时也需要对行为负责
科学分析将赞誉和谴责均转移到环境上而传统的时间便不再合理
这是颠覆性的改变因而，完全相信传统理论和实践的人们自然而然地对它们有所抗拒...

随着重点转移到环境个人似乎曝露在一种新的危险之下
控制环境要谁去建造要做到什么地步？
自主的人可以根据内在的价值观组合控制自己；他会做自己认为好的事情
但是，这个假定的控制着会认为什么才是好的事情呢而且，对于他所控制的事物，他的行为是否好呢？

当然会有诸如此类的问答从而提起价值判断
- B.F.斯金纳，1971年


The relation between the controller and the controlled 
is reciprocal. 
The scientist in the laboratory, 
studying the behavior of a pigeon, 
designs contingencies and observes their effects. 
His apparatus exerts a conspicuous control on the pigeon, 
but we must not overlook the control exerted by the pigeon. 
The behavior of the pigeon 
has determined the design of the apparatus 
and the procedures in which it is used. 
Some such reciprocal control is characteristic of all science. 
As Francis Bacon put it, 
nature to be commanded must be obeyed.  

The scientist who designs a cyclotron 
is under the control of the particles he is studying.  
The behavior with which a parent controls his child, 
either aversively or through positive reinforcement, 
is shaped and maintained by the child's responses. 
A psychotherapist changes the behavior of his patient 
in ways which have been shaped and maintained 
by his success in changing that behavior. 
A government or religion prescribes and imposes sanctions
selected by their effectiveness 
in controlling citizen or communicant. 
An employer induces his employees 
to work industriously and carefully 
with wage systems 
determined by their effects on behavior. 
The classroom practices of the teacher 
are shaped and maintained 
by the effects on his students. 

In a very real sense, then, 
the slave controls the slave driver, 
the child the parent, 
the patient the therapist, the citizen the government, 
the communicant the priest, the employee the employer, 
and the student the teacher.
- B.F. Skinner, 1971

控制者和被控制者之间的关系是相互的
实验室中的科学家对鸽子的行为进行研究他设计出应急事件并观察效果
仪器向鸽子发出一个显而易见的控制但我们绝对不能忽视了由鸽子所施加的控制
鸽子的行为决定了仪器的设计和使用仪器的步骤
某种此类相互控制，是所有科学的特性如同弗朗西斯·培根所说要掌握大自然,就必须遵守自然规律

设计回转加速器的科学家受控于他所研究的粒子
家长对孩子的控制行为不论是厌恶还是积极强化都是通过孩子的回应而塑造和保持
通过成功改变病人已然形成和维持的行为所得的方法精神医生令他病人的行为发生改变
政府或宗教通过在控制人民和教徒中表现出的效果来指定和实施制裁
雇主通过由雇员行为效果而决定的薪资体系来诱导雇员进行努力细致的工作
教师的教学实践通过在学生身上的效果而成型和维持

那么，从极为现实的意义上说奴隶控制着奴隶主孩子控制着家长
病人控制着医师、人们控制着政府教徒控制着牧师、雇员控制着雇主学生控制着教师
- B.F.斯金纳，1971年


When we choose silence, 
we choose to give up the reasons not to love, 
which are the reasons for going to war, or continuing war, 
or separating, or being a victim, or being right. 

In a moment of silence, 
in a moment of no thought, no mind, 
we choose to give those up. 
This is what my teacher invited me to.
 
Just choose silence. Don't even choose love. 
Choose silence, and love is apparent. 

If we choose love we already have an idea 
of what love is.
 
But if you choose silence, that is the end of ideas. 
You are willing to have no idea, 
to see what is present when there is no idea, 
past, present, future. 

No idea of love, no idea of truth, no idea of you,
no idea of me. Love is apparent.
- Gangaji, 2009

当我们选择沉默时我们选择放弃不去爱的理由
这个理由，是兴起战争或继续战争的理由是分离的理由、是成为被害者、或做正确之事的理由

在沉默之时在没有思想，没有考量之时
我们选择放弃这是我的老师教我的
只选择沉默甚至不要选择爱选择沉默，爱就会显现

如果我们选择爱我们已经了解爱的意义

但是如果我们选择沉默，则万事休矣在没有想法时
你很愿意不去想现在有什么过去、现在、未来

不知道爱、不知道真实、不知道你不知道我爱就会显现
- 恒河母，2009年


What is divine in man is elusive and impalpable, 
and he is easily tempted to embody it in a concrete form – 
a church, a country, a social system, a leader – 
so that he may realize it with less effort 
and serve it with more profit. 
Yet the attempt to externalize the kingdom of heaven 
in a temporal shape must end in disaster. 
It cannot be created by charters or constitutions 
nor established by arms. 

Those who seek for it alone will reach it together, 
and those who seek it in company will perish by themselves.
- Hugh Kingsmill, 1944

人类心中的神性，难以捉摸，虚无缥缈而他本身又极容易受到诱惑，以具体的形式来将神性表现出来–
比如教会、比如国家、比如社会体系、比如一个领袖–如此，他便能更轻松地认识到神性并更为戮力
为它服务
然而，尝试将神之国以现世形貌显现毕竟引来灾祸
通过宪章法律和武器都无法将它创造出来

独自寻觅之人将得以共见而成群寻觅之人会自取灭亡
- 休·金斯米尔，1944年


O my God, how does it happen in this poor old world
that Thou art so great and yet nobody finds Thee,
that Thou callest so loudly and nobody hears Thee,
that Thou art so near and nobody feels Thee,
that Thou givest Thyself to everybody 
and nobody knows Thy name?

Men flee from Thee and say they cannot find Thee;
they turn their backs and say they cannot see Thee;
they stop their ears and say they cannot hear Thee.
- Hans Denck, circa 1520

噢，上帝，为什么在这个可怜的旧世界中会发生如此惨事
美妙艺术无人知晓高声呼喊无人听见
近旁美好无人感受而奉献众人之人却无人知晓？

人们从它们身边逃开，却说无法觅得人们转过身去，却说无法看见
人们掩住耳朵，却说无法听闻
- 汉斯·登克，约1520年


Suppose a boat is crossing a river, 
and another empty boat is about to collide with it. 
Even an irritable man would not lose his temper. 
But supposing there was some one in the second boat.
Then the occupant of the first 
would shout to him to keep clear.
And if the other did not hear the first time, 
nor even when called three times, 
bad language would inevitably follow. 
In the first case there was no anger, 
in the second there was; 
because in the first case the boat was empty, 
and in the second it was occupied. 
And so it is with man. 
If he could only roam empty through life,
who would be able to injure him?
- Zhuangzi, 4th century B.C.

方舟而济于河有虚船来触舟
虽有惼心之人不怒
有一人在其上则呼张歙之
一呼而不闻再呼而不闻，于是三呼邪则必以恶声随之
向也不怒而今也怒
向也虚而今也实
人能虚己以游世其孰能害之！
- 庄子，公元前4世纪


Then the occupant of the first 
would shout to keep him clear.
And if the other did not hear the first time, 
nor even when called three times, 
bad language would inevitably follow. 
In the first case there was no anger, 
and in the second there was; 
because in the first case the boat was empty, 
and in the second it was occupied. 
And so it is with man. 
If he could only roam empty through life,
who would be able to injure him?
- Zhuangzi, 4th century B.C.

[So how'd it go?
I don't know.

I don't remember.
What?
Oh, it's not — it's normal for me. 
I never remember my dreams.
If I try right when I wake up, I can just barely remember
fragments. Later in the day, even 20 minutes later, 
those fragments are gone. Unless I wrote them down — 
then if I read them later, it's like, 
_these are the ramblings of a crazy person_.
Yeah, but, then, how do we know there aren't side effects, 
I mean, do you remember everything else? About your life?
It's fine! We're just doing suppression, not —
lobotomies. Everything's still there. 
In dreams we often take on personalities 
that are a little different; 
we forget details of our waking life 
and 'remember' fictions in their place. 
How does that happen? 
Well ... we're just using the same pathways. It's fine.

But really, how should I know if something's missing? 
If you forget a few random little things, 
how would you remember that you forgot?
Nothing big is missing. I don't think.

Wait. Who are you, again?
Oh God, why did we let you go first.
First hasn't happened yet! 
I was just dipping my toes into the pool. 
_Real_ first happens when someone dives right in 
and gets to decide for themselves when to come out. 
Who's _that_ going to be?  You?
Ugh. I long for the days when we weren't so sure 
we'd be doing anything this scary.
It'll be fine! It's not scary. It'll be fun.
So fun you don't even remember.
Okay now. Shoo. I want to re-record this one before I go home.
I have some new ideas about it.

What, because of the test?
Yes, because of the test. Possibly.
I thought you didn't remember anything.
Hmm. Interesting.
Yeah. Have a good night. I'll see you tomorrow.]

【则呼张歙之
一呼而不闻
再呼而不闻，于是三呼邪
则必以恶声随之
向也不怒而今也怒
向也虚而今也实
人能虚己以游世
其孰能害之！
庄子，公元前 4 世纪

还好吗？
我不知道。
我记不住了。
啥？
噢， 没什么 — 对我来说很正常。
我从来就记不住自己的梦。
即使在刚醒来时试着去回忆，
我也很难能想起来一些片段。再过一会，甚至只有 20 分钟吧，
这些片段也就忘得一干二净。唯一的方法就是把它们写下来 —
然后，之后我再回头去读它们，那感觉 —
“这一定是哪个疯子的胡话”。
啊，是的；不过，我们怎么知道会不会有些附带作用呢，
我是说，别的事情你还能记起来吗？关于日常生活的事情？
没问题！我们只是把那部分记忆给抑制了，
可不是做的脑叶切断手术。一切都还在那儿。
在梦里，我们的人格
会有略微不同；
我们会忘掉我们醒来后的生活
并且“记起”一些虚构的内容来代替它们。
你问这是怎么发生的？
呃... 做梦的时候我们还是用的同样的神经通路。就是这样的。
不过，说真的，我怎么才能知道是不是有忘掉事情？
比如忘掉了一些小事，
你怎么能知道你忘掉了它们？
我不认为你不会忘记大事。
等等。你是谁来着？
天哪，为什么要让你先来。
“先来”还没发生呢！
我只是刚试试水。
“真正”的先来是在有人跳到泳池里
并且开始考虑什么时候出来时才会发生。
那，那个人是谁？你来？
呃。我希望有些日子
我们不用这么确定地区做这么恐怖的事情。
没事的！一点都不可怕。会很有趣的。
有趣到你都记不住。
好吧，够了。在我回家之前，我想要重新录一下这个。
我有些新点子。
啥？因为测试？
对，因为测试。大概是这样。
我以为你什么都记不住呢。
噢，呃。很有趣。
是啊。做个好梦。明天见。】


We join spokes together in a wheel,
but it is the center hole
that makes the wagon move.

We shape clay into a pot,
but it is the emptiness inside
that holds whatever we want.

We hammer wood for a house,
but it is the inner space
that makes it livable.

We work with being,
but non-being is what we use.
- Lao Tzu, 6th century BC

三十辐共一毂当其无有车之用
埏埴以为器当其无有器之用
凿户牖以为室当其无有室之用
故有之以为利无之以为用
- 老子，公元前6世纪


Lustily I dipped my oars into the silent lake,
And, as I rose upon the stroke, my boat
Went heaving through the water like a swan;
When, from behind that craggy steep, till then
The horizon's bound, a huge peak, black and huge,
As if with voluntary power instinct,
Upreared its head. I struck and struck again,
And growing still in stature, the grim shape
Towered up between me and the stars. . . .

But after I had seen
That spectacle, for many days my brain
Worked with a dim and undetermined sense
Of unknown modes of being; o'er my thoughts
There hung a darkness, call it solitude,
Or blank desertion.
- William Wordsworth, 1888

用力地我将双桨送入沉寂的湖中
然后抬起双桨，我的船儿便如天鹅般起伏划过水面
此时，后面的崎岖峭壁那束缚在地平线之物，黑色高耸的山峰
就像发出了本能抬起了头我不停划桨
而那可畏形状仍在增长耸立于我与星辰之间...

然而，在我看过这等奇景连续多日，我的脑中
思考着存在的未知模式的灰暗和不确定；在我脑中
是一片黑暗，叫做孤独或是荒芜一片
- 威廉·华兹华斯，1888年


A shipowner was about to send to sea an emigrant-ship. 
He knew that she was old, 
and not well built at the first; 
that she had seen many seas and climes, 
and often had needed repairs. 
Doubts had been suggested to him 
that possibly she was not seaworthy. 
These doubts preyed upon his mind, and made him unhappy; 
he thought that perhaps he ought to have her 
thoroughly overhauled and refitted, 
even though this should put him at great expense. 
Before the ship sailed, however, 
he succeeded in overcoming these melancholy reflections.
He said to himself that she had gone safely 
through so many voyages and weathered so many storms 
that it was idle to suppose 
she would not come safely home from this trip also. 
He would put his trust in Providence, 
which could hardly fail to protect all these unhappy families 
that were leaving their fatherland 
to seek for better times elsewhere. 
He would dismiss from his mind 
all ungenerous suspicions 
about the honesty of builders and contractors. 
In such ways he acquired a sincere and comfortable conviction 
that his vessel was thoroughly safe and seaworthy; 
he watched her departure with a light heart, 
and benevolent wishes for the success of the exiles 
in their strange new home that was to be; 
and he got his insurance-money when she went down in
mid-ocean and told no tales.
What shall we say of him? 
Surely this, that he was verily guilty 
of the death of those families. 
It is admitted that he did sincerely believe 
in the soundness of his ship; 
but the sincerity of his conviction 
can in no wise help him, 
_because he had no right to believe
on such evidence as was before him_.
He had acquired his belief
not by honestly earning it in patient investigation, 
but by stifling his doubts. 
And although in the end he may have felt so sure about it 
that he could not think otherwise, 
yet inasmuch as he had knowingly and willingly 
worked himself into that frame of mind, 
he must be held responsible for it.
- William K. Clifford, 1874

一位船主，打算让一条移民船出海航行他心里清楚，这条船已经老旧并且从一开始就造的不是甚好
而她已久经风浪常常需要修理
船主在怀疑这条船已经无法再经风浪
这种怀疑侵袭着他的思想，让他不快他想，或许，即便要花上一大笔钱也要对这条船进行彻底的整修
但是，在船出航之前他成功克服了这种悲观反应
他对自己说这条船经历了如此多的航行，历经了多少风浪认为她无法从这次航程中平安归来是一件很
意义的事
他信了神神不会背弃那些背井离乡，去外边寻找更好生活的可悲家庭
船主从心底打消对造船者和承包人诚信的一切小心眼的怀疑
这样，他就能获得一种真诚而舒适的信念相信他的船能彻底安全，能经受得住风浪
以一种愉快的心情，船主看着船启程了并且亲切地祝愿这些流亡者在他们奇特的新家中一切顺利
而他则会在船在海中沉掉，杳无音讯时获得他那份保险金
我们该怎么评述他呢？当然，对于那些死去的家庭他罪恶滔天
需要承认的是，他真切地相信他的船的可靠性但是，他的真切信念绝对无法为他提供帮助
因为，他没有权利相信他面前的这等事实
他的信念并非从耐心调查中确实地得来而是通过扼杀自己的疑虑而造就
尽管到了最后，他认为无比确定再也想不到别的结果
既然他知道且乐意将自己放进那种思想条框中
那么，他就必须为此负责
- 威廉·金顿·克利福德，1874年


If a man, holding a belief which he was taught in childhood 
or persuaded of afterwards, 
keeps down and pushes away any doubts 
which arise about it in his mind, 
purposely avoids the reading of books 
and the company of men 
that call into question or discuss it, 
and regards as impious 
those questions which cannot easily be asked 
without disturbing it — 
the life of that man is one long sin against
mankind....

“But,” says one, “I am a busy man; 
“I have no time for the long course of study 
which would be necessary to make me in any degree 
a competent judge of certain questions, 
“or even able to understand the nature of
the arguments.”

Then he should have no time to believe.
- William K. Clifford, 1874

如果有个人抱持着在幼时被灌输或在之后被说服
将心中产生的怀疑压抑或推开
可以地不去读书不与人为伍一同对问题产生怀疑或讨论
将打断别人询问问题视为不敬—
那么，这个人，对于人类来说便是一个长长的原罪

“但是，”有人叫道，“我很忙的；
“我没有时间去进行那些取得学位所必须的长期学习没有时间去让我获得对问题作判断的能力
也没有时间去理解演绎论证的本质。”

那么，他也就应该没有时间去相信。
- 威廉·金顿·克利福德，1874年


These hearts were woven of human joys and cares,
Washed marvellously with sorrow, swift to mirth.

The years had given them kindness. Dawn was theirs,
And sunset, and the colours of the earth.

These had seen movement, and heard music; known
Slumber and waking; loved; gone proudly friended;

Felt the quick stir of wonder; sat alone;
Touched flowers and furs and cheeks. All this is ended.
There are waters blown by changing winds to laughter
And lit by the rich skies, all day. And after,

Frost, with a gesture, stays the waves that dance
And wandering loveliness. He leaves a white

Unbroken glory, a gathered radiance,
A width, a shining peace, under the night.
- Rupert Brooke, 1914

欢乐与忧虑缠绕着这些生灵，忽而悲伤、忽而高兴把他们冲洗，
荏苒岁月教给他们以慈悲，黎明、日落、大地的色彩让他们生辉。他们聆听过音乐，见识过竞技，
也领会得酣然入梦和幡然而醒，他们曾相爱，兴奋地结下友情，
领略过突如其来的讶异，也曾独坐思忖。他们抚摸过花朵、毛皮和爱人的面颊，但这些已全部成为
景。

风使人洒泪，笑亦使人泪洒泪珠为缤纷的天空映照，竞日放光华后来
冰霜猛然定住起舞的波涛人面上的冰霜也毁坏了可爱的风景画他留下密集的辐射、银色的光轮
广袤的原野、光辉的宁静在此夜色下
- 鲁伯特·布鲁克，1914年


Therefore, I thank you, my God,
because you make clear to me
that there is no other way of approaching you
except that which to all humans,
even to the most learned philosophers,
seems wholly inaccessible and impossible.
For you have shown me that you cannot be seen
elsewhere than where impossibility confronts and obstructs me.
O Lord, you, who are the food of the mature,
have given me courage to do violence to myself,
for impossibility coincides with necessity,
and I have discovered that the place where you are found unveiled
is girded about with the coincidence of contradictories.
This is the wall of paradise,
and it is there in paradise that you reside.
The wall's gate is guarded by the highest spirit of reason,
and unless it is overpowered, the way in will not lie open.
Thus, it is on the other side
of the coincidence of contradictories
that you will be able to be seen
and nowhere on this side.
If, therefore,
impossibility is necessity in your sight, O Lord,
there is nothing which your sight does not see.
- Nicholas of Cusa, 1453

因而，我感谢你，我的上帝你让我明瞭
想要靠近你，除去众生之途外
别无他法即便在最为博学的学者看来
（其他的方法）也是完全的不可能
你告诉我，除去面对不可能之外无法见到你的尊荣，并且阻拦着我
噢，上帝，你令我成熟，给我勇气对自己恶劣，
不可能性和必要性同时出现而我得以发现在对立统一之时
您的所在方得显现
这就是乐园之壁而您就在乐园之中。
墙壁的大门由至高的理性守卫如果不能克服，进入乐园的路途不会敞开
因而，在对立统一的另一侧
便可以得见您在这一侧，则毫无办法。
因此，如果说在您的视界中不可能性是有必要的
噢，上帝，那么您的目光便无不可视之物。
-库萨的尼古拉，1453年


Formerly you appeared to me, O Lord,
as invisible by every creature
because you are a hidden, infinite God.
Infinity, however, is incomprehensible
by every means of comprehending.
Later you appeared to me as visible by all,
for a thing exists only as you see it,
and it would not actually exist unless it saw you.
For your vision confers being,
since your vision is your essence.
Thus, my God, you are equally invisible and visible.
As you are, you are invisible;
as the creature is,
which exists only insofar as the creature sees you,
you are visible.
You, therefore, my invisible God, are seen by all,
and in all sight you are seen by everyone who sees.
You who are invisible,
who are both absolute from everything visible
and infinitely superexalted,
are seen in every visible thing
and in every act of vision.
Therefore, I must leap across this wall of invisible vision
to where you are to be found.
But this wall is both everything and nothing.
For you, who confront
as if you were both all things and nothing at all,
dwell inside that high wall
which no natural ability can scale by its own power.
- Nicholas of Cusa, 1453

噢，上帝因为您是神秘的、无限的上帝
于是先前您以任何造物不可见之身显现于我
然而，无限是任何方式都无法理解的概念
之后，您以万物得见之姿出现在我面前万物因您所见而存在
但万物若不能见您，则其自身实际并不存在。
您的目光便是神髓您的目光授予存在
因而，我的上帝，您既可见又不可见。您的本身，并非可见；
而作为造物只有在得见您时才得存在的造物您又是可见的。
因此，不可见的上帝，万物皆可见到您在万事万物的目光中，您在它们的视界中显现
不可见，对可见的万物而言却又是绝对的存在拥有无限的崇高
在可见的万物之中，在每每视野所到之处到处都有您的存在
因此，我必须越过目光不可见的藩篱去到您的所在
但这座高墙，说无实有。而您，化身万物而又不得而见的存在
就藏身于这座高墙之内而这座高墙，没有任何天生之力可以撼动。
-库萨的尼古拉，1453年


O Lord God, helper of those who seek you,
I see you in the garden of paradise,
and I do not know what I see,
because I see nothing visible.
I know this alone
that I know that I do not know what I see
and that I can never know.
I do not know how to name you,
because I do not know what you are.
Should anyone tell me
that you are named by this or that name,
by the fact that one gives a name
I know that it is not your name.
For the wall beyond which I see you
is the limit of every mode of signification by names.
Should anyone express any concept
by which you could be conceived,
I know that this concept is not a concept of you,
for every concept finds its boundary
at the wall of paradise.
Should anyone express any likeness
and say that you ought to be conceived according to it,
I know in the same way that this is not a likeness of you.
So too if anyone, wishing to furnish the means
by which you might be understood,
should set forth an understanding of you,
one is still far removed from you.
For the highest wall separates you from all these
and secludes you from everything that can be said or thought,
because you are absolute from all the things
that can fall within any concept.
- Nicholas of Cusa, 1453

尊贵的上帝，帮助寻觅的人我在乐园之中看到你
但我不知道我看到的是什么因为我一无所见
我只知道自己明白自己并不理解所见的一切而且，永远都不会明白。
因为我不知道你是什么样子我不知道应该怎样称呼您
如果有人告诉我您的名字是如此如此
然而却事实上是他人所起的名字我便知道，这不是您的真名。
阻碍着我一睹您的真容的墙壁是通过名字指称的各种模式的限制
如果有人以可以想见的概念来形容您
我便知道，这并不是您的概念各种概念，都会在乐园之壁前驻足不前
如果有人表达出任何样貌，认为您应该根据这种样貌来想象
我同样也知道，这并非您的样貌
还是一样，如果有人希望通过以可能的方式来理解您
阐释对您的理解那他还是离您甚远。
那座最高的墙壁将您与这些隔绝令您的存在无法思想言述
因为，您是万事万物的绝对可以适于任何概念
-库萨的尼古拉，1453年


I cannot understand why we idle discussing religion. 
If we are honest — and scientists have to be — 
we must admit that religion is a jumble
of false assertions, with no basis in reality. 
The very idea of God is a product of the human imagination. 
It is quite understandable why primitive people, 
who were so much more exposed to the overpowering
forces of nature than we are today, 
should have personified these forces in fear and trembling. 
But nowadays, when we understand so many natural processes, 
we have no need for such solutions. 
I can't for the life of me 
see how the postulate of an Almighty God 
helps us in any way. 
What I do see is that this assumption 
leads to such unproductive questions 
as why God allows so much misery and injustice, 
the exploitation of the poor by the rich 
and all the other horrors He might have prevented. 
If religion is still being taught, 
it is by no means because its ideas still convince us, 
but simply because some of us 
want to keep the lower classes quiet. 
Quiet people are much easier to govern 
than clamorous and dissatisfied ones. 
They are also much easier to exploit. 
Religion is a kind of opium that allows a nation 
to lull itself into wishful dreams 
and so forget the injustices that are
being perpetrated against the people.
- Paul Dirac, 1927
as related by Werner Heisenberg

[So you see what I'm saying here.
Yep. This one doesn't fit either.
How would you characterise the way in which it doesn't fit?
It's ... about arguing, and it's about being greatly disturbed
by issues that are relatively small. 
It's not aiming high,
it's not about ultimate truth, not really.
It's mostly about what some stupid people are doing
that is wrong, compared to what I am doing that is right.
But Paul Dirac was definitely a truth-seeker ... 
in the domain of physics at least.
Yeah but I don't feel that attitude in this piece at all.
If a belief is just formed in opposition to other beliefs,
... it can't be fundamental? It can't be that deep.
But you know, where he says the thing about natural processes, 
he starts to outline an actual philosophy.

Hmm, interesting. There's something that could stand on its own,
that isn't just rejection and opposition.
But then he drops it.
Well, this isn't the atheist manifesto we need.
I'll keep looking.
You know, at one point Dirac also wrote this:
"One could perhaps describe the situation by saying that 
God is a mathematician of a very high order,
and He used very advanced mathematics in constructing the universe."
I think he meant God in an Einstein kind of way.
He said that? Same guy?
Same guy. Later in life though. 
People are strange. Scientists are stranger.
Yes they are.]

我不能理解为什么我们要谈论宗教呢。如果我们诚实——科学家必须诚实——
我们必须承认宗教是一团乱七八糟的论断并没有建立在现实的基础上
上帝不过是人想象的产物原始人类比今天的我们
存在更多对自然力量的恐惧所以爱把这种力量人格化
这很好理解
但是今天，我们知道了这么多的自然规律不再需要这种人格化了
我并没有发现这种假设存在的上帝对我们的生活有过什么帮助
我亲眼看到的是这个假设会导致我们去问
为什么上帝允许这么多的吝啬和不公这么多的富人剥削穷人
这么多原本他能制止的恐惧等这样的问题。
如果宗教还能用于说教并不因为我们相信
而是因为他能让老百姓保持敬畏和和安静
而这样安静的老百姓们是容易被管理他们更容易去剥削
宗教是一种鸦片能让一个国家进入一种梦境，
忘却种种对人民的不公
- 保罗·狄拉克，1927年由维尔纳·海森堡记录

【这样你能明白我想说的了吧。
是的。这个也不适合。
你怎么能用不适合的方式来概括性质呢？
这是...一个争议，而且，相对来说的小事对它造成了很大的影响。
它的着眼点不高并不是在求索终极的真实
大体来说，它论述的是“一些蠢人的作为是错的而我的是对的”这种事情
但是，保罗·狄拉克确实是个真理的求索者...至少在物理学的领域，他担当得起这个名字。
对，没错；但是，那种求知的态度在这段文字里面完全没有体现。如果一种信仰是为了对抗其他信仰
诞生，
...那它就不会是最根本的信仰？它没有那么深的内涵。
但是，你看，在他提到自然规律的时候，他有开始触到真正的哲学了。

嗯，有意思。他在暗示一些可以自然存在，并非反对和对立的内容。
好吧，这不是我们需要的无神论宣言。我会继续找。
要知道，狄拉克还提到过一点：
“我们或许可以这样说，上帝是一个非常高明的数学家，他用非常非常先进的数学建立了宇宙。”
我觉得，他是在以爱因斯坦的方式来表述上帝。
他那样说了？是同一个人？
是同一个人。人还真奇怪。科学家都是怪胎。
没错，他们就是些怪人。】


[... just reading these well, 
picking the right takes, placing them.
I don't think it pays to be too neat.
I want to leave some traces of us. 
For the intrepid to find.
What do you mean? Any visitor to that island 
is going to hear quite a lot of us, if they poke around.
Sure but I mean showing what's happening 
behind the scenes a little bit. 
To ensure we keep some authenticity.
Because if we get too concerned 
with saying a bunch of wise things 
in the least personally-revealing way,
then we're basically putting up a front, 
in danger of becoming a false front. 
It's a slippery slope, 
and you know how easily we could slide into pomposity.
Nobody wants that, but would we notice if it happened?
Or are we too close to the project?
If we include some of our interactions, 
show that we aren't transcendent perfect beings, 
that we get stuck sometimes, 
that we get into arguments, 
or get depressed,
then at least it's not a false front. 
At least we're not hiding.
Authenticity is good. Yes. 
But you can find human drama anywhere. 
We're drowning in it from day to day. 
We're supposed to be building a quiet environment, 
_away_ from drama, not ... celebrating it.
Look. These are objects of contemplation. 
These are about focus and clarity. 
We agreed at the outset.
I know, and I don't want to change any of that. 
Just a little added twist, tucked away deep.
It doesn't have to be drama. Just reality.
Reality? So, what? We should record a meeting and stick it in?
Maybe! But we already have some good stuff, for example, 
a little encounter the other week 
where you offered to buy a girl a sandwich.

Her mic was running, so it's in the archive. 
But look, it's fine. In context it's perfect. 
Because we're not lecturing from on high.
These recordings are part of an endeavor 
built by human beings,
and they aspire to Truth-with-a-capital-T 
but we must also remember that they cannot actually get there.
We should be clear to the intrepid that we know this.
It'll make it all better!
Okay, sure. We'll at least see how it feels.

On that island we are going to be in _very_ susceptible states.
Be careful with it.
It seems I get to be the pioneer of being mildly embarrassed.
Also, I should probably let you know, I am recording this conversation right now.
Oh, come on.
I'm serious.
It will make it better. Trust me.]

【...只是把这些好好读出来，挑出好的片段，把它们放好。
我不觉得这个得做得那么好。
我希望能留下些我们自己的踪迹。让那些无畏者来发现。
你是说？来到那座岛的人，他们到处逛逛就会听到有关我们的许多内容。
没错，不过我的想法是透露一些幕后发生的事情。
让我们能保有一些真实性。
如果我们过于注重以不带个人意识的方式
陈述大段大段的智慧言论，
那我们从根本上说就是在摆场面，有做成假把式的危险。
这很危险，你明白我们很容易就会落到浮套里去。
谁都不喜欢那样，但要是真的发生这种事，我们能注意到吗？或者说，我们是不是有点太贴近项目了？
要是我们能把我们之间的互动加进去，表现出自己不是超然的“完人”，
我们也会“卡壳”，我们也会争论，也会抑郁，
那么，至少我们没有装个假门面。至少，我们没有去隐藏自己。
表现真实很好。是的。但是，人总是在演戏，无处不在。
我们每天都在各种演戏中度过。
我们应当建立一个安宁的环境，“远离”演戏...不要再去演另一出戏。
你看。这些是冥想的对象。这些是关于专注和明晰。我们一开始就商量好的。
我知道，我不希望对它作出任何更改。只是加一些变化，以免太过于艰深。
它不需要去刻意表演。只需要真实。
真实？那要什么样的真实？录一场会议然后插进去？
可能就是这样！不过我们已经有了一些好材料，比如，
之前某个星期有一次你提出要给一个女孩买三明治。
她的麦克风没关，所以存了下来。不过，你看，这就很好。在环境中堪称完美。
因为我们并不是高高在上的说教。
这些录音是人类努力所构建成果的一部分，
而这些人，渴求着真理；我们必须同时记住的是，他们并不能真正抵达真理彼岸。
向无畏者们，我们必须陈清我们了解这一点。这样会让一切都好一些！
好，当然是的。至少我们要看看感觉怎么样。
在那座岛上，我们将会处于非常敏感的状态。小心一点。
看来我会首当其冲去适度领受尴尬。
还有，也许你该知道：现在的对话，我录下来了。
嘿，别这样。
我说真的。
（叹气）】


[... it's just the new teapot beeping. 
It boils fast but that beep bothers me. Moving on?
So next I want to raise this problem, 
which is that I think we don't have 
enough smart representation from materialist atheists,
physicalists, anything in that neighborhood of ideas. 
And I've been trying to do something about that but it's hard.
The problem is that most coherent atheist screeds 
are focused on defeating some specific idea of God 
or are angry about the historical activities 
of organized religions — 
rather than, say, from first principles, 
making a good case for the impossibility 
of any concept of God, 
which would be more like what we're after.
I'm having the same problem.  
So many justifications of atheism devolve 
into assertions of the implausibility of Bible stories. 
Someone like Bertrand Russell, a very advanced thinker, 
but his commentary on religion 
all seems to be like 'Why I am not a Christian', 
very limited in scope. 
It is way too small compared
to the vision of God in the pieces we're juxtaposing.
Can you —

Can you repeat that last part? You dropped out a bit.
Oh, just that it's a very provincial idea of God 
that's usually advanced in those arguments, 
sometimes even a straw-man God, 
and doesn't have much in common 
with the God visualized by Cusa or Spinoza 
or the great Sufis, or even Einstein, whoever.
So it just doesn't play on the same field.
When people are explicitly pushing materialism they're
usually philosophers or writers ... 
not physicists, not people who actually 
do the front-line work 
of understanding the physical world.
With the heavy hitters in physics, it's very hard.
It's hard to find good statements
that aren't just arguing against straw men. 
And it's strange because in the modern age 
a reasonable portion of working physicists are atheists, 
not all by any means, but a reasonable portion; 
but it's hard to get strong and articulate statements 
from that sector.
Yeah, the closest you get is somebody like Feynman, 
where science gives us a great degree of certainty 
about certain things, 
but outside those it's not a good idea to tell ourselves nice stories, 
and speculate, it is just best to realize we don't know yet
about the bigger questions, etc. 
But we have a lot of Feynman already.

Paul Dirac was at least a staunch atheist, at one point in his life,
but I don't know if he has direct statements on record. 
I'll keep an eye out.
Dirac was far from a materialist though — 
he believed the universe is made out of math. 
That's an oversimplification of course. 
He even mentioned God a few times, 
in an Einstein kind of way.
This is all so crazy because among scientifically-educated people
... it's the cultural default, right?
If you are a scientist 
or a computer programmer kind of person, 
materialism is supposed to be the basic belief — 
If you're not a materialist you're stupid. 
But if we can't find anyone who makes a good case for it,
how does that happen?
Well, it's easy to be convinced of the absurdity of stories in
common Christianity, Judaism, whatever ... 
so if that's your picture of spiritual beliefs, 
and you have an aversion to digging too hard 
into your own worldview, which most of us do,
then there you go — anything that seems religious 
is goofy bible stories, 
and materialism is anti-religious, 
and it's the general impression 
that smart people are materialist, 
and I want to be smart, so ... case closed!
Also, there are all those so-called spiritual people 
who will believe basically anything 
and try to convince everyone ...
In addition to goofy bible stories, did I forget to mention
ghost stories, astrologers, spoon benders 
and all kinds of frauds.
... it's a ton of noise, it makes it almost impossible
for an outsider looking in to see high-quality thought 
in the world of spirituality. 
If I can even generalize "spirituality" to one thing.
So it's easy if you're already leaning toward materialism
to see these flaky spiritual people, 
extrapolate that to _all_ spiritual people, 
and say all that stuff is garbage.
That's how it worked for me. For a while.
Okay. But despite all this 
there's a large contingent of present day real scientists 
who believe in some form of atheist materialism
and whose beliefs have been carefully considered. 
So we need to ensure we respect that viewpoint.

I remember there's —
It's so frustrating —
Sorry.
No, you go.
Oh, I was just going to say, 
Carl Sagan has a good piece in, umm, Demon-Haunted World?, 
where he talks about science 
as a profound source of spirituality. 
But he doesn't mean mystical spirituality, 
he means ... 
this pure dedication to truth, 
and the development of a wise perspective 
on our place in the world. 
It's nice. And it's a picture of atheism 
that isn't hostile or contemptuous.
Yeah, I read that, 
and what you're talking about is a beautiful piece,
and I tried to get it, 
but Sagan's people want too much money.
Can't we just pay more?
No, it would trigger a bunch 
of 'most-favored-nation' clauses, 
then we have to pay everyone a lot more, 
and we go broke. 
So no Sagan for us.
It's a shame since he was such a great thinker, 
and eloquent too.]

【噢，那个是新茶壶在叫。水滚得很快，不过这叫声很让我烦。我们继续？
下面我想提个问题，我认为，
在唯物主义无神论者、物理学家的智慧讲演以及相近的理念上，我们都很缺乏。
我已经尝试做些补救，但很艰难。
问题在于，大多数条理清晰的无神论者檄文都专注在驳斥某些有关上帝的特定理念
或者对历史上的有组织宗教活动表示愤慨—
而不是从根本上对上帝所有概念
的不可能进行弹压，而后者却更贴近于我们的追寻。
我也遇到了同样的问题。
无神论的理由如此众多，却流于对圣经故事的可信度的负面论断。
有些人喜欢高深的思想家，伯特兰·罗素，但是他对宗教的评论
全然尽是“为什么我不是基督徒”，太过于局限。
与描述上帝视野的文字相并列就显得过于狭小。
你能—
你能重复一下最后那点吗？有点断线了。
哦，就是那种非常狭隘的上帝概念常在那些争论中出现，
有时，甚至上帝会化身稻草人，却与库萨或斯宾诺莎、
苏非教派，甚至于爱因斯坦，不论是谁，与他们眼中的上帝都没有太多相同之处。
所以，这完全就不在一个层面。
在明确地推扬唯物主义的人群中，哲学家或作家通常占多数...
物理学家，作为了解物理世界的最前沿工作者，却并不在此列。
想要有物理大家来出面，真的很难。
很难找到并不是仅仅对“稻草人上帝”进行争论的好论述。
然后，奇怪的是，在现代，相当一部分现役物理学家是无神论者，
当然，不是全部都是，但是有相当一部分是；但是很难从这一部分人群中获得明确有力的论述。
是啊，你找到的最接近的就是类似费曼的，科学让我们对确定的事物有了高度的确定性，然而，
在此之外，我们一无所知，讲个美妙的故事然后臆测，
这绝非好主意；能认识到我们对更大的问题仍唯有所知，等等，这样才是最好的。
但是，我们已经有许多费曼的东西了。
保罗·狄拉克至少在他生命中的某个时间段是个坚定的无神论者，但是，我不知道他是不是有直接的
记录流传。
我会注意。
狄拉克完全不能称作唯物主义者—他相信宇宙是用数学造就的。
当然，这是种过度的简化。
他甚至还以爱因斯坦的方式提到了几次上帝。
在接受了科学教育的人群当中，这真是太疯狂了...这就是文化缺省，对吧？
现在的情况是，如果你是科学家或者电脑程序员之类，
唯物主义无神论应该是基本信仰—如果你不是个唯物主义者，那你就是个笨蛋。
但是，我们找不到可以提供好例子的人，怎么会这样的？
呃，让人相信基督教、犹太教等等的故事荒诞不经很容易，
所以，如果它们就是你对精神信仰的看法，
你就会避免去对你的世界观进行深刻的挖掘，而这就是我们大多数人做的，
那么就对了—看上去和宗教相关的就好像荒谬的圣经故事，
而唯物主义是反宗教的，然后，一般来说，人们的印象是聪明人是唯物主义者，
我想当个聪明人...话题到此为止！
此外，还有那些属灵派的人基本来说，他们会相信任何事
并且会去说服所有人去相信...
我还忘记提到，除了荒诞的圣经故事之外的鬼故事、占星家、折汤匙者，
还有各种各样的骗子。
...由于众多杂音的存在，外人近乎不可能深入了解到灵性世界中的
高质量思想。如果我能对某个事物产生“灵性”就好了。
那样，如果你已经偏向唯物主义，就能看出这些古怪的属灵派的人，
并就此轻松推断到“所有”属灵人，断言所有的一切都是些无用的废话。
对我来说，就是这样。有那么一段时间。
好吧。但是，除却这些之外当今的真正科学家之中，
有很多都相信某种形式的无神论唯物主义，而他们的信仰都是经过仔细考虑的。
所以，我们需要确保有对这一观点予以尊重。
我记得有—还真是让人沮丧—
抱歉。
不，你先说。
噢，我是要说，卡尔·萨根有一个不错的著作可以放进来，呃，是叫《魔鬼出没的世界》来着？
在那里面，他有把科学比作灵性的深厚来源。
但是，他所指的并不是神秘学中的灵性，他的意思是
这种对真理的纯粹奉献精神，以及对我们在世界中所处位置的智慧看法。
这是个不错的选择。它对无神论的描绘并不带有敌意或侮辱意味。
是啊，我读过了，你说的那个很不错，
我有试过去获得授权，但是萨根那边的人有点贪财。
那多付点钱行不行？
不行，这样会引起一连串的“最惠国待遇”条款，
然后我们就要给每个人都多付上许多费用，我们会破产的。
那就不要萨根的东西了。
真是可惜，他是个伟大的思想家，还很擅长雄辩。】



—— Jonathan Blow - The Witness

Thanks for everything, thank you blow.
